i changed my cell phone yesterday, and it had been a long time since i had been so excited unboxing my new baby.
shout-outs to the world who cover their grass with canvas for the winter.
[deleted]
tank dealers, are you open on weekends?
it's to avoid the gravel you know? it's not like putting a coat on your dog
there's not really any stereotypical way of speaking associated with sherbrooke (estrie). it blends seamlessly with surrounding areas and the greater montreal.
nothing comparable to regions with very noticeable differences like beauce, saguenay, outaouais or gaspésie
depends on which ones, generally no but some open on saturdays.
check on google
ready to screw you 7 days a week
check on google maps, it depends on the area. they have fairly generous opening hours, like a lot of evenings until 9am. the dealer's garage is going to be more like 8 to 4 monday-friday though.
i'll go to bed less silly tonight, i thought they were afraid their lawn would catch a cold.
i have often seen people do it when they arrive in quebec, i thought it was to protect the lawn from salt.
personally, i don't and i don't find that my lawn is completely spoiled in the spring. is there a real interest in doing it?
if the city does not put salt and just gravel / sand, your piece of land must be really hard in the spring when it melts
okay thanks, maybe i'll put some on for next year.
no, there really is. lmao.
r/donthelpjustfilm
yes !
around the middle of the video. poor cat !
😂after me the cameraman also noticed it he "zoomed out" so that we can see him better
we need more posts like this. thank you op 🤣
translation for my ignorant english-only self? thank you very much my friend:)
one does not prevent the other ;)
🤣
chu glé, and i see it🤣
a what??
miaow
what is the cat doing?
vat news! ah ah ah ah
u/savevideobot
f**k her in the pussy !?%$#!!!
is there a sub for everything, thank you!
i take my hat off to the person filming for zooming out to make sure we don't miss a thing!
>am i stoned or there's a f•cking cat stuck behind her?
un shoa
>! an orange cat stuck in bars and struggling behind the first lady.! <
it sounds like a very stereotypical boomer.
well then! it is clear that all wars in history have been started because of video games ... / s
i am looking forward to the elections i do not feel so represented in this government it is serious!
what a miserable character.
there was a lot more violence per capita in the time the kids played with sticks and hoops. there was just less media.
typical republican / conservative stuff.
small reminder that violent crime in the united states has been in free fall since the release of the first mortal kombat, and it continues to decline even if the games become more and more violent, despite what old politicians think.
i know, one cause not the other, but still.
lego when coronation hockey players punch their eyes on the ice in the middle of the game: * i'm sleeping *
lego when a kid plays gta: * kessé cô ??? *
damn lego tarlat ...
this guy is a real boomer uncle
"when a politician blames video games, he is shirking all responsibility."
that is well summarized.
it is not the same speech when they announce subsidies for video game companies.
mononc lego still surpasses itself from what i see
a real pure boomer
i have played a good part of my life and i think there is nothing that i regret more. china has decided to ban it for young people and i am not against it. it's just that it's really easy to escape into a fictional world built to make you feel competent and in control as soon as you run into difficulties. while you play instead of confronting your problems, the other learns other skills. they learn to socialize, get in shape or be creative. i'm not 100% against some games learning certain tricks. but, at the end of several years if you play 15 hours or more per week, you will see the difference with those and those who took this time there for something else.
video games are addicting because they are designed for it. it can ruin a life like a heroine if you're not careful. if we're talking about society, it's not absurd to consider that video games can become a social problem. i know a 31-year-old and stay in his gaming room all day. he has no talent at all, no solid friendships, never had a love affair, is incapable of making an effort for anything and when he does something it is often very badly done because he has almost no experience in anything. it's really sad.
sometimes i have the impression that he purposely embodies these stereotypes
coming from the caq it's not surprising. at least once a month we are reminded to what extent the caq is a boomer party.
everyone knows that joan of arc stopped the hundred years war by deploying nintendo!
if you feel represented by a party right now, i think you have such a big problem ...
we forbid hoops!
the police officer deleted the video taken by the driver ...
but they found the video from the gas station which recorded everything and which corroborates the driver's version and not the policeman who lied and tried to erase the evidence, oops!
we hear in the distance the "we can not do anything!" policemen and reactionaries.
it’s sure that it’s less easy for the bullshiter police now that there are cameras everywhere 😉
many cases in quebec of things that would not exist according to the pm and the reactionaries of quebecor
why is the post downvote?
i hope this policeman will be fired ...
nothing in our french-speaking media ...
a racist person who uses the system to protect himself. is there a term for this phenomenon?
no column from mbc and martineau on this? 🤔
🐷🐖🐽
two simultaneous news about the racist police.
is it me where the article does not mention the repercussions for the police officer?
racial profiling, abuse of powers, destruction of evidence etc ... this guy has nothing to do with the police.
> many cases in quebec of things that would not exist according to the pm and the reactionaries of quebecor
quebec is not racist = / = there is no racism in quebec.
because ethno-nationalists and other right-wing nationalists want to silence any example of racism in quebec because it does not match their speech which is "there is no racism in quebec, quebec is the victim of racism ! "
the sub has seen quite a few people arrive since the covid. with a large majority being quite racist and quite right wing.
welcome to / r / quebec :)
hopefully he will be suspended with pay. it will teach him!
/s
this is because we already know that the police are racist.
racism ... system ... no, sorry, that doesn't occur to me.
unfortunately, at the moment they are busy defending the honor of quebec from the affronts of the film aline.
but all this does not exist according to the pm, a good part of air quebec and quebecor, so everything is beautiful👍 / s
where is the second?
ark, according to this link they are fined $ 4,000 and $ 2,000 for the teammate. and another 18k in damages and interest paid by the city.
criss of joke. not even a slap on the wrist is fine there. they will start again tomorrow morning; and this time to be really sure that there will be no witnesses ...
esti that i could understand nothing about sanitary measures. i imagine this event took place in a fairly large city. meanwhile, in the small towns of abitibi, we are super strict with regard to cultural events, some of which have even been canceled this year as well and for next year already. for real it is as if the measures were stricter in the small towns than the big ones. i disgust in tabarnak it makes no sense. still good for you to live these moments, take advantage of them.
omicron joined the conversation
it is marked center bell wholesale.
there is always a head to bring us the covid as soon as something fun happens.
there seriously we have something to clarify. people in the crowd are 100% vaccinated and wear masks. the danger even with the new variant is almost nil.
cassette changes.
as long as we were there, they could have invited him to the microphone
indeed, i had not noticed.
it has nothing to do with it, it is just a body positive message to say that the fat ones are beautiful (the rules of the agreements of the kinds having been abolished).
are you a virologist?
the variant is new and dangerous. we don't know how much.
would you rather take the risk of finding out the hard way?
no way everyone in the crowd had their mask on. it's a music show.
it does not surprise me. in my sample not at all representative of my office colleagues, it is hopeless. we are talking about people with university degrees who are content to put the% in the rrsp to have the business contribution, and who keep the rest of their money in a checking account.
and even what is put in the rrsp is placed in ultra prudent management (while these colleagues are almost all under 30) by a financial advisor who takes an absurd commission.
how many times have i heard or read “who sells the best rrsps?” ...
the question implies a great misunderstanding of what an rrsp is.
personal finance 101 (note: i'm not a financial professional - do your research):
* if you don't have a pension plan with your jobs and you don't save anything for your retirement, the quebec pension plan is not going to give you much. if i remember correctly (tell me if i'm wrong), they were targeting 25% of the salary (and that has increased to 33% or something like that recently, for those who are starting work). and i think he's tops out at 1500 a month for the pension plan and something like 500 a month for old age security. that's if you contributed to the diet to the max.
* if you're making less than $ 50,000 a year, it's best to put money in tfsas first and save the space in rrsps for when you make more money.
* unless your employer puts money in your rrsp, don't use the big banks, they take crazy commissions.
* if your employer adds money, put the money to collect the maximum with your employer and put the rest as described below.
* what to do with my retirement savings then? open a simple wealth account (this will give you a tfsa account and an rrsp). they have 0 commissions on buying and selling stocks (this includes etfs) in canadian dollars. when you have money to put into savings, you buy an etf like vgro and you don't touch anything until you retire. the stock market goes down? no big deal - touch nothing. buy regularly (when you have money to spare, and in the long run it will go up)
* if it's 'free', how do simple wealth make money? if you buy stocks in usd, they take commissions on the conversion. and they have a plan that makes your deposits not take 3 days, but are instant ... who cares, don't take that. you put your money to save, you wait 3 days for confirmation, you buy vgro when the money is available.
* what are etfs? it's like buying a stock that contains lots of company stocks - 1 vgro stock is worth a lot of fractional shares. for example, there are etfs that are 'focused' on stocks of metals companies, others of financial companies, etc. but that, we don't care. vgro, for example, is an etf that contains every imaginable sector and company. it is as if one share of vgro is equivalent to a fraction of all the shares in the world. ok, that's not exactly it, but you understand the principle. note that this also includes 20% bond, which makes it a little less volatile than 100% stocks. too complicated? no big deal, if you put all your savings in vgro, it's already better than what the banks are going to do with your money.
* "but i don't want to put my money on the stock market" - that's what the banks will do with your money if you take their products. they will buy stocks, bonds, financial products etc. the only difference is that they take commissions and it's going to cost you more.
* if you want to go see a financial planner, go see a freelance that you will pay. the free ones push the products that will give them money, not the best for you. it will cost you dearly at the time, but in the long run it is more advantageous.
* if you have purchases to make in the near future (house, car, etc.), it changes the situation a little with what you do with your savings. what i said above is especially if you have money to put aside for your retirement.
* if you put your savings in a bank savings account that gives you a big 0.5%, in fact you are losing money in the long run due to inflation. the revenues increase by \ ~ 2% per year (this year it's more than that) and your money increases by 0.5% .. in short, you get 1.5% of value on your money per year. it's better than keeping it in a checking account, but it's not long-term savings.
good estimate
i must admit that financial planners do not help. the great majority of them pay their salaries with commissions on management fees. they have no advantage in educating their clients.
> in my sample not at all representative of my office colleagues, it is hopeless.
it can be sad indeed. when, last year, our employer finally set up an rrsp participation plan, we had 2 employees who ... did not want to sign. it took several days to make them understand that it is money that the company given them to put in their rrsp.
they just didn't understand the concept at all, and couldn't understand that it wasn't money that was being taken away from their pay.
it's a bit scary, it makes you wonder how they manage their personal finances indeed ...
it is in the same category that "i don't want to make more money because i am going to change my tax bracket and receive less money at the end of the day".
i am without words ....
100% of the world who breathe die one day!
my freedom, i stop breathing!
i even saw a guy lose a wheel on the highway shortly after installing winter tires! quite more likely to die from the installation than not to put them on!
not to mention the tire passport, there are sometimes roadblocks where the police identify you by your winter logo on your tire, a pure attack on my freedom of movement by a tyrannical system! wake up sheeples!
> if i have tires, the government can track me in the snow.
slow applause.
without forgetting, it is obligatory!
de l'or! 
thank you.
a conspiratorial logic:
person a had put on the winter tires
person a has a car accident
conclusion: winter tires caused the accident.
worse the lady who says that snow was invented by the giants and that they spread it at night, it's bullshit, it also snows during the day everywhere.
ah yes, the famous big tire.
you forgot that almost all winter accidents are caused by cars with winter tires.
saved for the next time or i am faced with another antivax.
big pharma < big rubber
wow, thanks for the giggles.
you will have to self-stick this and squish it in the forehead of your antivaxx chanel. their stupidity wears me out. : b
i absolutely want to see an anti winter tire movement.
😂😂
guillaume lemay taverge: me, i think, and i, i update the drugs
lucie laurier approves this message!
ha! heille that's humor. you have a young future. that's 400 dollars!
ouan! worse in addition there must be bought a new set at all cost not how many years because its use its? see donation! you see that it's big tire trying to get us money out. worse, in addition, the government is manipulating it by big tires by forcing us to buy winter tires! let's see donation!
i laughed. very good :)
> the tire giants invented snow and spread it at night when you sleep
[the tire giants] (
saint-jean-d'osaka cider
yeah, that's sake!
nani ?!
it just looks like a double printed sign and they're on the other side
fortunate !! you have 2 good brands of sake at home! and not too expensive too! here in crisse de france (at least in my esti region) not easy to find and the price is excessive in tabarnak!
sayuri sake ❤️
what do you call japanese ciders on the same shelf at the saq?
quebec ciders
it's written in new simplified french
what does sake that?
besides, it's just scrap like "cider".
the quebecois cider houses are smart enough not to put their cider at the saq.
not to mention that, if it's like the beer from micro quebecoise sold at the saq, they would ask for products made exclusively for them. fuck that.
and we make them in a cider-rice.
sold to the saq in hiroshima-maisonneuve.
matagami is next to tokyo, isn't it?
wow, fantastic!
nani esti ?!
scrap not our fun
make your own sake. sushi rice with champagne yeast. in 2 weeks you will have your sake. the easiest of all patenting to do.
do not confuse with [hayamatagami] ( 1s0x5f8a180229d32baf: 0x9c60db31a5fde1db! 8m2! 3d38.096396! 4d140.89345! 15scgbogqhkuiqsarbjb21tdw5pdhlfy2vudgvy) which is further north.
no thank you, there is a know-how, when i went to japan my father-in-law (japanese) made me taste different sake, we had a little cooked with a low-end saket (1 bottle for two) , headache in the evening and the next day.
then we took a bigger shot with a high-end sake (2 bottles of sake each and before that some asahi sd), already nothing that the taste was magical and no hangovers the next day.
blame it on the distillation methods, quality of the rice and unwanted impurities.
i laughed at it ... then i hurt a little
i have a hard time understanding why quebec did not have veto rights?
i had never turned on that it happened on a november 4th night.
"he sleeps like a doll", "he's sleeping with a doll"
- powder blues
a good meme that makes you cry
an inter-canada trip
excellent....
best content i've seen of the day. thank you
i did not understand
u / savevideo
hahaha i laughed, but a little yellow in the end.
can someone explain this joke to me please? im not local:)
there i'm just sad: '(
he was playing cards ...
*i remember*
dude this is hilarious i can hear his voice yelling.
ah hon hon hon
a hell of a chance he didn't win! imagine quebec how we would be poor and weak without the help that canada gives us each year !!
because it's quebec. worse canada had no intention of letting us go
we had it until they said "no actually you never had it lol"
there are several past instances where quebec has used a veto and it was recognized.
i will try to answer you according to how i live it personally. you will do what you want with it!
most of the time, i feel like i don't have a connection to any of the "gendered" groups that i happen to gravitate to. the idea of being seen as feminine / woman (i was born a woman) bothers me a bit. it gives me the mental equivalent of creaking when you hear fingernails on a painting.
except ... is it the same when i imagine myself being seen as male / male? it makes me very uncomfortable, because once again i feel it's not true to how i feel inside.
necessarily, in my everyday life, i have maneurisms, clothes, etc. which are perceived by society to be one or the other and i am aware of that. at the bottom of me, it bothers me the same to know that those around me will perceive me in one or other of these categories of genres.
in short, i do not identify myself socially as non-binary because i do not want to live the misery that they live every day to have to protect the legitimacy of their feeling. but in real life, for me it really boils down to just not feeling neither one nor the other
i want to follow too. i have teenagers at home and honestly their generation seems to have completely deconstructed the principle of genres.
as much as millennials fought to remove labels, so many z want to put them everywhere. you must be defined to be accepted. that's what i take away from my teenagers anyway.
i will accept them and love them as they are, but i admit that they are difficult to follow!
i am not a non-binary, but a trans woman. i have never associated myself with anything that has to do with men. i have always been naturally drawn to being a woman mentally and physically.
it's not that hard to think that some people might experience that same feeling of non-belonging for the female and male gender, thus making them non-binary.
what i ended up realizing was that there are people for whom gender identification is very important, to the point of undergoing heavy medical treatment in the name of it.
i am aware that i am biologically a man but it is just a biological reality of the same order as being myopic or right-handed. and it doesn't make me "feel less of a man" not to be interested in hockey or to prefer herbal tea to whiskey, precisely because "to feel a man" means nothing to me.
so i watch this whole debate a bit as a spectator, as i would listen to theological arguments between members of different churches: in a personally selfless way, but realizing that for some people it is very important, and j 'also try not to offend anyone by my questions or my actions.
non-binarity is a social construction.
that's all.
i think the world should just do what they want and love who they want without being limited to or feeling the need to explain it to the world around.
it's pt the millennial in me who tries to avoid unnecessary labels on the other hand.
do well if a pronoun can make them feel better but i doubt that is the problem.
99.76% of canadians are comfortable with their "assigned at birth" gender
i ask my students to define me what it is socially, therefore not biologically (i don't mean by that that biology is something that is done outside of society, but i am speaking to students in high school then bear with me), a man or a woman. what are the qualities that a man, a woman should have. we make the list. then we wonder if you have any examples of people falling off this list.
y'en a.
we come to realize that you have a list of standard characteristics, which we can refuse, but that there are no terms yet to designate these other categories which do not allow subsume under a binary categorization. because "man" and "woman" still express tendencies, ways of being too structured.
also: let's say that men and women can be "anything", then what is the point of the distinction. is it simply to express what is below the underwear? or do you have something like an "essence" of man and woman? young people increasingly reject this idea.
at my school (public, in the region), the young people were sad to learn that the new toilets were not mixed. they were only because the school had not yet received the signs to put on it to indicate who was entitled to access it.
there's nothing to understand.
we live in a century where the individual is king, where everything revolves around the individual. from this observation, new categories can only emerge, because the individual, in an individualistic society, must constantly stand out. once this category becomes mainsteam and mundane, there will be others that will emerge, with new pronouns, since being non-binary will no longer stand out from the crowd.
gender is cultural. it's in our head if you want (unlike sex, what you have in your panties). from what i understand, people who are non-binary, gender fluid, or who do not identify with male or female are not found in binary representations of gender (male / female)
otherwise, fun fact, in many cultures there are more than two genres. the non-binary term is a western term and rather recent, but there have always been, all over the world, people who did not identify as male or female (or male and female).
personally, i don't understand the genre, so i don't. for me, the genre is useless and it's just too complicated and unnecessary, a bit like some dogmas. it's a useless label and one that doesn't make sense.
i got there by realizing that i was not alone in thinking that and that there was a word to describe this feeling. i am agenre and i use any pronoun. it's a bit like learning a new word to describe my emotions that fits perfectly with what i'm going through.
anything big; i'm non-binary, but it's mine. i try to keep it personal and not to require everything to revolve around me; call me him and i'll give up my balls, her and me down the totons, but not he, i won't know who you're talking to.
i think like you, i believe that it is possible to be born in the wrong body, that it is possible and that it is okay to love someone of the same sex ...
same thing for those who like men and women, it's okay. nothing wrong with that.
you can even be asexual, it's possible.
but this story of non-binarity is just proof that when you've ever lived through war, famine and a real social cause to defend, you invented your own imaginary cause to defend.
you are a man or a woman, there is no such thing as the absence of gender in a human. you can be neither, nor neither.
we definitely have too much free time….
i respect the identity that people want to use but i have a problem with those who get offended when you don't know about it and you use the wrong pronoun, the error is human and it's not tattooed in their forehead.
i wonder what happens when they go to the doctor. you can identify yourself as you want, medical science must know which chromosome you have in certain cases
as for the genre, i think we shouldn't have to provide it in the vast majority of cases. this is my only opinion formed on the subject.
thanks for asking these questions. i am also curious.
i am perhaps in the very stiff field, but the non-binarity seems to me to be more a matter of political ideology than of deep identity.
you have trans people who are apolitical, progressive, conservative, etc. in my experience, this is not the case with people who call themselves non-binary, who are almost systematically leftist and very militant. in short, it seems to be a deliberate opposition to gender norms (although by calling yourself non-binary because you don't identify with male / female stereotypes, you are indirectly asserting the validity of those stereotypes).
i will never ask people i meet with which pronoun to address them. there's what's called gender identity and gender expression and gender expression is used for that.
i am not against using it to someone who clearly identifies as it, but it is not for me to take the step of asking.
and please trans people, don't take offense to being called sir if you have a beard and look like a man in every way ...
i will keep my answer simple and short. first, you have to differentiate between gender and sex (genitals, penis / vagina (and possibly other for intersex people)). gender fits into a spectrum, as shown in this image ( / width / 250 / height / 250? cb = 20160930220810)
gender is something so diverse that i would say it should be viewed more as a 3d sphere or spectrum and not 2d like this image.
again, gender ≠ sex. people often misunderstand the interpretation of gender because they get stuck on the concept of sex.
i will give an answer from my experience as a mental health professional.
i observed "non-binaries" in the hospital. i would say they are not stable people, but everyone in this place is, not just them. we don't get someone into the hospital for that either. from what i can see, the problem this causes is either from the reaction of others or from the anxieties caused by how the person is going through it. in particular, i have seen some who are depressed and / or anxious about these things:
* being accidentally called the "wrong" pronoun by another person.
* the incomprehension or ignorance of others about it, even if they do not antagonize it.
* having to face the biological reality of the binary nature of sex.
* having to tick a box in a form.
if you are experiencing intense anxiety or depression about such things, please consult. it's not healthy. if you are experiencing harassment, however, it is a whole different story. but not wanting to leave the house anymore because you are afraid that someone will use “he / him” instead of “iel…” it's just not healthy. and note that i avoid saying "not normal." being non-binary is abnormal. but there's absolutely nothing wrong with being abnormal if it doesn't harm anyone.
if it's the apocalypse here it must be the apocalypse somewhere else. as long as to be in the mard, i prefer to be in mine
it depends on how you want to survive in the post-apocalyptic world \ *
\ - you can move south to avoid winters, but you will have to deal with armed bandits (given the number of weapons in the usa).
\ - you can move north and have peace, but resources are scarce and winters will be harsh.
\ - you can stay close to the big centers, but you will be competing with lots of other groups.
there is no miracle solution.
\ * i'm a post-apocalyptic survival pro: i played fallout 1, 2, 3, 4 and fallout 76
quebec is one of the most peaceful places in the world. there are resources en masse. i don't see why any other place would be better.
i would go back to my village lost hole in the mountains. the water is drinkable even in rivers and it is full of game.
staying here mofos 
drinking water en masse, harsh winters to deter bandits, already accustomed as the local population
full of woods and not many people, local population who is peaceful (average) and who appreciates the world who speak french.
the history of the company focused on mutual aid ...
we would be in the top in a crappy situation.
i'm staying. we'll eat potatoes and carrots, but we'll have so much less trouble here!
just for drinking water, quebec is one of the best places in the world to be in the event of an apocalyptic disaster.
i am staying in canada but will be joining my family in the woods in northern ontario. peace out, we'll see each other in several years.
it's one of the times i'm proud of my family of hunters, fishermen, mechanics and construction guys haha
i commit suicide. post-apocalyptic life doesn't interest me at all.
i would go to bc as soon as possible pcq if they start preventing trips even between provinces at least the low winter is more manageable it makes a deal less managed in an apocalypse
if the end of the world is coming, go to costa rica forever !! the end of the world risks being more zen! and i choose the beach! i'm not staying here anyway! too much fret!
i stay, all my relatives are here, in addition we have a lot of resources in quebec such as wood, drinking water, game and fish, wide open spaces to have peace and save oneself from the ordeal, etc. besides, people here speak my language, so it avoids communication problems and discrimination. the only thing that can cause us big problem is the americans in the south armed to the teeth who might come here or sell weapons here.
i remain, despite the usa below, i think it's a lot less worse than all the possible migration crises in europe / asia / africa
i stay, we cry against quebec but personally, i do not see myself elsewhere
i'm going to mars.
i'm staying. too attached to my current life.
i stay here. i become a bandit and join other weaker group and force them to kill a member of their group for no reason.
new zealand. like american billionaires
i'm going to northwestern ontario near lake superior. i am very familiar with the plants and nature there that surround the lake because i am from minnesota. when i was young we visited there very often.
i describe my family in the gaspé to live from hunting and fishing.
i would go elsewhere, probably to one of the nordic countries like finland or norway, just because i no longer have faith in our health care system. it's a house of cards, ready to collapse at the slightest crisis. i fully expect to be overlooked by the system if i need anything.
it reminds me of the little houses we used to put under the tree.
i love! 💛
cool, but the fireplace should have been on the other side. side living room and living area.
astheure i want to play a point-and-click that would take place in old quebec.
really cool!
very nice! i love the style!
nft incoming!
/s :)
i still put some but no nursery 😉
ah i admit that she arrives in the entrance on the ground floor!
you're the 4th to have suggested that i do it since i started drawing regularly 🤪 can you just have fun? ☺️
do not!
/ s: p i wanted to embark on the fashion of ironically plogging the nft lol
the title?
it looks like bingo.
yesss! this is what the pq was missing, a new logo! at last!
every time i saw something crashing trying to come up with a new logo, it just crashed more.
website marde title, this is the ad ad:
> the parti québécois (pq) will unveil a new logo on december 4 in trois-rivières, during its orientation convention. "it is a logo which is current, dynamic, but which respects the rich heritage of the party", declares paul st-pierre plamondon, the leader of the pq.
> the challenge for the parti québécois is to bring the separatists back to our country and convince people that we are doomed to a linguistic and cultural decline in canada.
this is the most annoying, in my opinion. is our relationship with canada unhealthy and sovereignty desirable? absoutely.
does pretending, in 2021, that this is the major stake when the climate crisis worsens, make you a credible politician? absolutely not.
the mentality of sovereignty at all costs, we cannot afford it today. especially since we know that they will not hold a referendum in the first term. we don't have time for that.
> paul st-pierre plamondon recognizes that he must gain notoriety to make gains in the next provincial election. making your voice heard in the public square turns out to be more difficult than he expected. there's no denying that you have to fight to get your fair share of moments.
i need notoriety, but i prefer to remain backbencher by choking the by-election in marie-victorin. it's hard to follow the guy
it will clearly change everything else !!
i think the same firm spoke to the pq as to my old university
it's a great decision not to show up in marie-victorin. it is much better to continue the field work throughout quebec than to be caught in longueuil for three to four months.
the pq has found an excellent local candidate for marie-victorin and paul has absolutely no connection in the constituency.
he don't fuckall choke, you're just screeching in bad faith pi you're looking for bebittes. party activists in marie-vic are very happy to have pierre nantel as a candidate.
but the alternative to that is to campaign locally * during * the general election. he's going to start from scratch at the worst possible time, when he would have had the opportunity to establish his base before the big crunch.
i do not see how it is a winner for him.
> paul has absolutely no connection in the riding.
i don't see how it's relevant, no matter where he shows up, he will be parachuted.
pspp would have spent the rest of the year 2022 campaigning in marie-vic, while by not showing up, he continues to make himself known by touring quebec.
and what's more, his victory is not guaranteed.
i don't understand how you can't * see how it didn't win for him.
i suppose. but i come from marie-victorin, and personally, i much prefer having a local candidate with experience, like pierre nantel.
not all constituencies are going to have good candidates like him, and then pspp would make more sense as a candidate without them.
if we would have had a random dude with no experience as a candidate in longueuil, i would not make this speech.
> he continues to make himself known by touring quebec.
he literally taunts in his interview that he's having a hard time being heard right now. being elected, he would have much more visibility. what is the point of having time to tour quebec if everyone is ignoring you?
> and moreover, his victory is not guaranteed.
his victory will never be guaranteed anywhere. his only way to be sure is to pack a popular pq candidate. to the amount they have left, i don't think it's a winning move considering that he will be resigned at the next election.
at some point, if you present yourself as the boss, there is a certain level of risk in taking your place. don't take it and put it off until later, that's the dictionary definition of a choke.
of all the options available to him, marie-vic was probably one of the best.
right, pspp at marie-victorin, it's not good for marie-victorin in the context of nantel, that we can understand.
except that the question that was raised by / u / cucuze was that he would have been better off running now than having to establish a base in a constituency where he will be parachuted in during the general election. also, he would have a bigger platform in the meantime.
both can be true at the same time.
> he literally taunts in his interview that he's having a hard time being heard right now. being elected, he would have much more visibility. what is the point of having time to tour quebec if everyone is ignoring you?
"i don't have a lot of media attention, so i should drop the idea of having it and spend the majority of 2022 campaigning locally in a constituency."
do you think that makes sense?
> his victory will never be guaranteed anywhere.
yes, but it's better to fight for real at the right time. it is much less worse for the party than the leader losing in the general election than in the partial.
> his only way to be sure is to crush a popular pq candidate.
no: rimouski.
> at some point, if you present yourself as the leader, there is a certain level of risk in taking your place.
the risk would surely have been worth it in longueuil without nantel as a candidate. it plays a big role in my opinion.
if pierre nantel wins, it sends a very, very strong message for the party, in addition to getting his hands on a member with experience. and if he loses, it's not the end of the world, even if that wouldn't be great ... whereas a loss of pspp in marie-victorin? we would no longer hear about it in the media.
> was that he would have had an advantage to run now rather than having to establish a base in a constituency where he will be parachuted during the general election.
he has said on several occasions that he will announce shortly where he is going to show up. if he announces this in early 2022, he will be able to work the field well before the election is called.
these are differences of tactics, we will not get along.
on the other hand, i offer you a bet of $ 20 paid to moisson rive-sud that pspp will not be elected to the general.
i don't know, it's already used to mean a more familiar "we", so that could be confusing, right?
mmmmmm ...
i am a journalist and have been to trans pride recently. no one cared.
100% of non-binary in attendance used him and her alternately and never complained of being bullied. sometimes he sometimes she, never isle.
if you don't focus on forcing them to be forcibly snitched by harassing them, you're not supposed to cause them to spike in anxiety. 99% of them do not use xenopronom.
putting "ille" in the dictionary won't really change anything. it's just a question of usage in my opinion. don't get fooled with the scarecrow articles saying that you are going to lose your job for a mégenrage, in the community we constantly mess with each other without doing it on purpose, we apologize and we move on ...
to answer your question: yes, good idea. but in quebecois we use "we" like "us" in the familiar language. so it's gonna be confusing (even if it already is)
i have heard the pronoun "iel" or "ille," but i think it is no longer known and used. it is the pronoun "singular they" in english.
a question that my students often ask is <<comment est-ce les adjectifs s'accordent avec iel, parce que c'est un pronom non-genré?> > but i don't know.
the pronoun "we" already has a meaning. in the classical sense, it designates one or more undefined persons. in more colloquial language, especially in quebec, it is used as a "we". and yes, using it as a non-gendered first name for the third person would lead to unpleasant and frequent confusion.
in another idea, there is very often, in customer service or similar contexts, what i would call an “on” of distancing.
the waitress addresses the customer: "shall we have another coffee?" "
the technician speaks to a patient who is taking an x-ray: “we lean on the screen. perfect. now we raise our heads, we turn a little to the right. »etc.
it gives an unpleasant impression of depersonalization. i know that, linguistically speaking, i have my bugs, but this “we” of distancing annoys me. in the case of the waitress, i find it a bit funny; in the case of a lady, worried about upcoming results of medical exams, a little distraught to be in the hospital, say, who is given a bunch of instructions by the technician, i find it a little sad .
are we beautiful or are we beautiful?
because normally the word "we" defines a group of people and excludes the speaker.
"anyone who does not associate with the feminine group (therefore non-gendered, etc.) automatically falls into the masculine language to lighten the text."
boom everyone is happy except the wokes / sjws who will never be happy anyways.
the whole point of this bogus debate is to get attention. i, me, me. people who start drama on their pronouns just want to be unique and the focus on them; pure narcissism. the "on" does not work because it is not unique and does not allow them to position themselves as victims; he would simply solve the problem, which is absolutely not their desire. so it's completely pointless trying to find a reasonable settlement that doesn't match 100% of their hysteria because that only fuels their victimization for attention. there's also no point in granting them what they ask for as they'll just move the goal post to have a new reason to be offended.
i'm learning the language right now (sorry for the grammar), and i was listening to a podcast on this issue (podcast: "news in slow french"). i teach english in high school in the united states, so i got interested, but it's good to know that french speakers are confused too.
why don't we just let the world live instead of trying to decide for them? what does that change in our lives, concretely?
non-binary people can use the pronoun they like most, i have an enby friend who uses “he” because he was born in a “girl” body so “he” separates it from the gender assigned to him when he was born .. i hope that made sense
by completely dissociating itself from politics to go into linguistics, french already had a neutral gender like german, but by dint of medieval practice it was integrated into the masculine, which is the origin of the rule of " masculine who wins ”when it should rather be the neuter.
i'm not saying that we should use the masculine for all non-gendered people, it was just a fun fact that i find interesting
yeah ... it's a good idea but not enough to shock boomers so what's the point?
i will never be able to take seriously someone who asks me to use an invented pronoun, sorry but that's how it is
"we" exclude the person speaking
we mean a group of people who are unknown or to say people in general ex: we eat the soup with a spoon.
personally i use it (but nobody uses it) i prefer we have iel (which i also use) but no matter what we use, as soon as it is for a non-binary person, you get fucked up on it , so i haven't tried to popularize the idea.
but in terms of neutral neutrality, i think it comes to clarify that you are not talking about yourself.
pcq "on" already has a very important function in the language. it would cause more problem than it would solve
because "we" do not care, it is offended business like 0.001% of the population and yet we make national debates.
frankly i think i hadn't thought about it. it's a good idea.
it was a health theater from the start and it will remain so.
"but now, one of the top advisors on the ontario covid-10 science advisory table" le covid 10? personne corrige les textes?
it is a serious problem a government which does not know how to readjust when science changes. we went from 'big droplets to aerosol' at least a year ago, which means investing in aeration quite a bit everywhere, but clearly they were not interested.
seriously, who cares about the quality of the air in schools when we can have a big tunnel crunch, the return of the nordics and a $ 200 check for christmas instead? the little brats will get their dose of fresh air at recess, that's all. they don't even contribute to the economy anyway .... that's not how we're going to catch up with ontario. (slashe-esse)
national post is the jdm drain fund equivalent.
in the jdem there are words missing in the titles sometimes / too often, they do not even reread. it's serious.
off topic but there are so many advertisements on this page and not even screwed up to complete the article. this is good marketing strategy 👍.
if your spending grows because of tourists, you have two options: tax your citizens, or tax tourists. there is no miracle.
essentially, the mayoress decided to tax traders, who happily profit from tourism. they always have the option of absorbing that $ 1 per transaction over $ 20, if they want to avoid keeping tourists away.
considering the limited revenue collection tools available to municipalities, this seems to me a fairly fair method to ensure that merchants do not get rich by absorbing the costs of their goodwill even through property taxes.
it's a lot easier than trying to get them to increase their salaries because their employees' municipal taxes are going to have to increase.
i've never heard of a tourist town that charges tourists an extra ... are there any comparisons elsewhere?
i understand that $ 700,000 to manage tourism is a lot for a city with a budget of 5 million annually, but it still comes down to just + \ - $ 1 per tourist.
quite sure that many cities would pay $ 1 for tourists to visit their cities, spend in their restaurants, sleep in their inns, buy in their shops, pay for boat tours, visit their museums, etc. etc.
i have the impression that it will not just cost 500-600 visitors a year but a lot more who, in principle, will either avoid the place where they will spend much less ...
say it if it is cave or simplistic as an idea, but rather than putting this burden on traders ... parking meters, that would not indirectly tax visitors?
i am not an expert on the subject.
could the shortfall not have been made via an increase in trade taxes?
there is indeed just in quebec where tourism costs money instead of bringing it back ...
this article relates a beautiful symphony of mange-marde !!!
it is not a good strategy when you click nothing more from the sun for this reason.
so you've never heard of trembling?
the city of niagara falls had a "tourism improvement fee" / "destination marketing fee" that you could request to withdraw.
i just looked quickly it looks like it has been replaced by a hotel tax which is now mandatory.
that's what is written right? in addition to a tax, there are parking meters and paid parking lots in addition to a tourist tax. they go all-in!
parking meters in the region are not very natural. they would have to pay a parking agent 20,000 for the summer, to enforce the parking meters. and 3/4 of the income would be gone.
i don't have any ads thanks to my pihole :)
i've never been there, i go snowboarding in smaller centers in general. is it the same there too?
well thank you for the information, i find it special!
i read diagonally, i probably missed this passage.
but i admit it's not an easy thing to deal with. i myself grew up in a place that lives off tourism 3 months a year and the challenge is always the same: how not to alienate a source of income while giving a quality of life to the citizen who is there too during the other 9 months of the year? and above all, how to make that profitable for the city which is “pinched” to maintain the infrastructure which accommodates this industry?
i already like the idea of banning flips of residences for tourist rental, or airbnb for close friends. short-term rental is an aggravating factor in the housing crisis in large cities, it should not spread ...
it is not far from the price of the biggest mountains in north america but it is not even close to reaching the ankle of their mountain quality, say.
and everything in the "village" is super expensive.
personally, i vote for all publications which either challenge me enough for me to comment or those for which i do not yet have an opinion or one not yet well formed, but where i still consider that we should have a talk.
i do the same for comments that i respond to.
another thing that binds me is serious posts where there is an easy prank to do so it escalates. i like it to laugh and there are some really good ones, but at the same time i believe that serious opinions should still be at the top of the page.
the vast majority of what is below minus 10 is posted by quality-less trolls.
so not only do we disagree, but it is also a dompe.
when your opinion is unpopular, you have two options.
you can assume it and live with the downvotes. i respect that.
or you can whine and scream at the echo chamber.
but i'm not going to upvote something just because someone made the effort to write it down. it would be the equivalent of donating a tim hortons participation medal.
i upvote when it's unavoidable. i downvote when it's really a maid. the rest, i simply do not react.
do you have an example of a -100 comment that was well worded, intelligent, and sourced?
well my post is getting low to vote, is it a dompe with stupid arguments, or is it just people who disagree?
i'm not talking about voting for the effort to write, but there is still a difference between a smart comment that i have a difference of opinion with, and a foolish comment that is disrespectful or just plain bogus.
example: i do not agree with your present comment, but it takes these comments to have a constructive discussion on the subject that i have just brought up, you support your opinion with well formulated arguments, so i vote you high when same.
i did not downvote.
but i think you should expect it to go wrong. what remains for you to do is to assume it.
are you getting downvoted? switch to another call. don't let virtual points decide what to say and what not to say.
didn't say a grocery store for how many people!
at $ 100 per week it is playable for 0.4 person jdirais ...
iga proud partner of the liberal party of quebec
and pepsi, and jos louis.
criss chus ben!
i'm also happy to find that all of my vaccinated friends get along just as well with my unvaccinated friends. you have to believe that some are more rational than others. life is beautiful!
yesterday i decided to call my old friend who has not given me any sign of life since the start of the pandemic.
yeah, i wasn't expecting that. like a tape, he told me everything the antivaxers repeat on social networks (nuremberg! canada bought 10 doses ...), but also other even more wacky stories like reptilians and the end of the world .
he broke up with his girlfriend, he quarreled with his family and just quit his job after 14 years of service.
he told me he didn't want to see me again. i told him that it pained me, but that it was his choice.
but, before hanging up, i told him that he should go get help because his behavior is worrying, that he isolates himself the same way he did when we were teenagers and that 'he had tried to kill himself.
newsflash: your belated friends always have been.
we're not all that lucky. glad that some can have it.
i still realize that i haven't lost a loved one after a year and a half of the pandemic.
i still have health, a shelter and i can still eat my fill.
courage to everyone! it's not easy what we are living now but tell yourself that each passing day is one less day in a pandemic !!
same thing here, it's pretty consensus.
grooooosse family (ten adults, ten children on one side, seven adults on the other) bin of friends, and everything goes bin.
i shit and it feels good.
i have many. even they are willing to lose their job. fucking winner. yet people who seem to be rational. tk.
asti i too am lucky! i was telling myself that just last week!
the only person i noticed in my acquaintance was a dude i worked with who goes to farfaadaas meetings. i wasn't even surprised though. it is a cellar osti. haha
pretty sure the vast majority of unvaccinated people are like her. i imagine that she does not participate in the marches in the streets either.
tell yourself that when the rider talks about mongolian antivax, they mostly talk about people like your aunt. she probably wouldn't like to be threatened or forcibly vaccinated either, which some pro-vax would like to do according to some i know personally and what i'm reading here.
you respect her in her choices, as bad as they are, she does the same with you. it seems to me that it would be quite simple for it to be like that but it looks like it's too difficult.
what annoys me the most with relatives who do not want to be vaccinated, whatever their reasons, is that if they die from covid, while the vaccine exists, is effective and is widely available in quebec, i will blame them the rest of my life!
my girlfriend has actually learned to love little things.
that's what my wife says every cheek. enjoy the little things!
i have some anti vax around me. i totally respect their vision of things. i do not consider myself more or less lucky, however. getting vaccinated is a personal choice, whether you like it or not.
and before you throw rocks at me, i have my two doses.
if i were you i would tell my aunt that she is cave to not get vaccinated for this reason, and then i would start harassing her to make an appointment. if she reacts badly, it's because after all she's just another crazy antivax.
worse a newspaper from mourial.
udder a ti chip with vinegar
a vinegar ti chip
the irony of the parallel is magnificent whether she is conscious or not. thank you!
there is the 1981-1987-1991 trilogy which is very good.
also, there are the two films * bon cop, bad cop. * it's quite cartoonish and comical, but it explains the difference between english canada and quebec. there is also the famous really explanatory and very funny swearing scene!
hoping to have helped you a little :)
black sequence!
can you hear me? the series is on netflix.
the best choice! a well-written, well-performed and out of the ordinary series, a rarity in quebec!
which is also a masterpiece too little known for my taste ...
i'm listening to it and it's excellent !!!
i had wanted to start 2 years ago, but i had not embarked with the first episode. i found that mélissa bédard's acting was wrong and that made me drop out (she is a singer who was at one of her first experiences as an actress).
finally, it is improving quickly before our eyes and it's fun to see it go as it goes! all the other actors are amazing, really. from the 2nd or 3rd episode, everything becomes top notch.
it's super funny and super touching.
edit: for op, there's not just netflix by the way! tou.tv offers some good series for free and i even think the adblock works. including "too much", "adulthood" and "plan b"!
there are a few selections on crave as well and disney +. on disney +, disney owns the quebec versions of their productions, so you can listen to the simpsons with quebec voices, for example.
> we had to leave sainte-agathe quickly, remembers mendy. one evening in november 2013, the lev tahor fled. the group made the trip to ontario and settled in the chatham-kent region.
it had me so angry at the time. the dpj and the sq have both compiled a very complete file on the sect but when they wanted to intervene it was already too late.
the sq and the dpj therefore sent everything to their ontarian counterparts who replied "you have no authority here, we are going to investigate ** zero **!" "
which they did, giving the sect time to go to guatemala.
it takes courage to leave a sect like that. all my admiration.
willing to bet he's on the "anti-semitic list" we were talking about on the sub a few days ago.
when the hasidics find your sect too hardcore ...
the reality is that if these children lived in a sect of muslim faith, they would never have lived through hell for so long ....
definitely, everything took too long. we see that even nowadays, everything that is religious must be taken with a grain of salt ...
during this time, these people continued to marry children to old people ...
in addition to preventing a generation of children from being educated ...
the backrest was surely made of concrete because the religious aspect required a concrete backrest. if it had been anything else, they surely could have intervened long before….
the sq revealed several months after they learned that the sect was financing itself by selling children as sex slaves. so they made the decision to go downhill and leave with the 150 children.
the sect learned about it. the sq never told us how.
it takes quite a bit of logistics to leave with 150 kids so maybe someone in that chain has spoken?
in any case, with the whole file, i really blame ontario for not taking action.
that's 150+ children have gone on and will continue to be abused and raped under the guise of some form of religion ...
each case in itself is a task on our record as a canadian society that would have done everything possible to protect these children.
i really wonder if it was not on the religion side, if it would have dragged on at this point there in the handle ...
> the mayor of quebec, bruno marchand, reacted quickly through social networks. “i am disturbed by these images circulating on the web in relation to a police intervention by the spvq. light will be shed on these events, ”he wrote.
> “an exhaustive investigation is currently underway to shed light on this event. for the moment, the professional standards module is in the process of identifying the police officer (s) involved. the measures will be determined as soon as the analysis of the evidence is completed, ”declared the spvq.
it takes the full video of the arrest. impossible to judge with this content
it's funny but in quebec, we neither treated the terrorist killer of the mosque like that nor the guy with the katana while the people in the video clearly didn't kill anyone.
how do you say it?
"clearly, he's immobilized, his arms behind his back. to do this to a youngster, also for free, has no place."
it would be nice to know the background before calling it free.
with police body cams that don't exist?
did you resist their arrest?
criss of amalgamation of genius, lafrenière denounced and surrendered to the police without resistance and the laval guy was hypothermic.
"a lover of secularism with a troubled soul"
was it necessary even with a context? he was clearly no longer a danger to anyone
also, tell me seriously why the terrorist from quebec and the guy with the katana who were however ** armed ** and had probably just killed people, why they were entitled to more leniency than the people in this video?
i can't wait to read your explanation
is a snowball in the face part of the spvq guidelines?
once it is under control and no longer poses a threat, it is unjustifiable to act like that.
point
yeah! the youngster is probably guilty of having abused his freedom of speech guaranteed by the charter of rights offending the self-esteem of the cop with mean words that made him question his deep humanity ...
#/s
i'm talking about the link content on this post only. if you have other resources lets go
that changes nothing. several of the burrs arrive while they are on the ground, already handcuffed to their backs, immobilized and surrounded by dozens of police officers. how do you want to resist in this context?
really curious that you teach me the magic trick that makes these teens dangerous once in this position.
also:
first, where did you see that they were resisting in this case? i have not had any information on this subject. source please.
also, do they therefore deserve more respect from the police than a teenager who would resist? they were, however, violent and armed.
for someone who calls himself antiwoke, you're pretty much triggered easily to pull out bad words
😳
i don't know what people expect from an arrest. if you resist, do you think the cops will sit down with you and play a game of uno to get you to cooperate? a big part is missing in the video. maybe nothing has done, you can try to take the gun from the policeman. etc. that's why we're investigating.
start by telling me the whole story that we have seen here. surely he cooperated 100% with the police?
because they did not curse the police at the time of their arrest and they did not resist verbally and physically when they were immobilized with their hands behind their backs.
it looks like minas tirith
i tried the same case with another ai, strange result, but there was an effort on a flag haha 
the second is château frontenac to how much?
in the first one, are you super giant orange construction cones? : d
inception
small town bordered by fields and golf courses with two portals to hell in the center. it matches quite well in my opinion.
it looks like the result of the château frontenac which would have crammed the oratory of st-joseph while notre-dame-de-bonsecours watched while crossing itself ...
[i just tried] ( me too…
i think ai is federalist: p
so google earth in very low resolution?
oh looks like los angeles
the first photo looks like not much, at the limit it shows the straightness of the streets running here. the second is interesting, it shows the vertical drop of mont-royal / château frontenac or the verticality of these towns. rather classy, it makes a very fantasy video game castle.
tf is that? what is that? xd
wtf hahah what is the guy
it's weird but it scares me lol
"routes of quebec"
the portals to the underworld are more like two giant orange cones. every day we get closer and closer to skynet.
it seems to me more to be the mont-royal
interresssnt that it does not produce the same image twice
subtle the swastika in the quebec flag left corner
depedn on the style you choose
she tried to mix the carnival man and the ice castle.
when foreign researchers speak better french than the ceos of air canada and snc lavalin.
that's good but hydro unfortunately has a history of self-peeling-bananization of doing research and dropping it for ideological rather than scientific reasons.
i imagine this is the quebec translation of solid-state battery?
if it becomes a tesla wall competitor, i want one.
interesting ... so it would be li-po batteries, but solid?
let's gooo! we want lots of ideas like that!
> the atmosphere is electrifying
ugh...
example? i don't know too much about it. are you talking about nuclear?
yep
why the downvote lol?
in fact, hq research funds itself with the sale / lease of the patents of this research, none under public, so you are much more likely that the next generation of tesla wall contains batteries made with hq technology by tesla or samsung.
they made a wheel motor and a solid battery in the 1990s, they gave it all up when the plq took over. in short, it was being able to convert any vehicle into an electric car, more powerful than the tesla, 30 years ago.
mi ... tabarnak.
okay. there are people who negotiate all matters no matter if i'm doing my cellar or the conversation and rare are those who do. so it gives that.
absolutely.
a big scam.
there were clearly brown envelopes that were handed out to discard this superb invention.
super technology. a little fuss and your engine is scrap. nice i will take 4.
we can come back to the wheel motor. this is a false good idea. it has been 30 years since people with a persecution complex invoke this episode.
uh? i no longer have the impression that it was the liberals' idea to have an automobile industry in quebec.
according to wikipedia, the in-wheel motor was scrapped after the pq took power. i no longer have the impression that the idea was good, but that to put all this into operation, it was risky and not hydro-quebec's mandate (to go into the automotive industry).
| in the september 1994 elections, the liberal government of daniel johnson was replaced by the parti québécois of jacques parizeau. government priorities are changing. in the summer of 1995, after some initial enthusiasm for the project, the president of hydro-quebec armand couture asked pierre couture if it was possible to sell the engine developed by his team and at what price
> they abandoned everything when the plq took power
basically, the plq which sabotages quebec.
there you go little guy
we are so used to career politicians, establishment norms that equality between people, better distribution of resources and an environmentally responsible approach becomes “a unicorn world”.
people who criticize qs should take the time to read and understand the program as a whole.
> but there is also their porosity to the influence of the business lobby. the current situation largely benefits those holders of economic power who have no interest in changing the economy and our ways of doing things.
all is said.
look, he's not wrong. it's true that i see more taunts than criticisms of qs
qs are competent when it comes to decrying social injustices but it is always their economic platform that tarnishes their reputation
eille it's dishonest like tabarnak. by what right does qs speak of the environment when, as a party, they tabled fewer bills on this subject during the last legislature than sylvain gaudreault alone?
it would be fun for qs to scramble and stop competing with legault "who is the most demagogue", tse, question that we have at least one left political party in assnat. we have enough pressure groups, thank you.
he should talk to eric duhaime ...
> people who criticize qs should take the time to read and understand the program as a whole.
do you think this will change their minds?
qs it is the political party which wanted to "repatriate the tfsa". it was quite funny to watch them skate when asked to clarify what they meant by that.
like any program for that matter, i think it's worth the effort to read all the programs and understand them well.
people do not realize the extent of the decline in everyone's standard of living that is required to meet their ghg targets.
> we're so used to career politicians, establishment standards
it's so hollow that. gnd is literally a career politician. the caq is the most recent party in the national assembly. we talk about the establishment, but i look at the ministers of the caq, like dubé, roberge or fitzgibbon, i have a hard time seeing the establishment. apart from legault and blais ... the caq has a lot of new people in politics.
the election of the caq is a revolution in itself, which precisely breaks with the establishment of recent decades.
under a government led by qs, what is the deficit for the first budget?
thirty billion, forty billion?
"* it's okay the rich will pay! *"
not as long as they do not squeal out their marginal fringe which monopolizes all their debates.
i hear a lot of insults on duhaime as well as criticisms.
yes no. but it would help to understand better and not just say anything based on the wind.
i mean… it's okay to disagree with a party. but knowing why is important
qs and money don't go well together.
decrease in standard of living> no living.
it's a lot better to consume less, to consume locally, to pay a little more than trinkets bought in china than agriculture which goes wrong because of the climate, hot summers with record heat waves, etc.
always better to aim higher and reach 80% of the target than to aim low and reach 80% of the target.
what background do the people of the caq come from?
what was their role before becoming a politician? establishment is not just political.
for gnd you are right: he is a career politician and i have trouble with this concept.
2.4.1 for truly progressive taxation and the abolition of tax havens / tax avoidance strategies.
otherwise, what you are saying is just speculation and based on no hard facts. by stopping to support certain parts of the economy (hello bombardier) without return, we can afford interesting social programs.
yet you are the only one to make a case with this bangs. she is so insignificant.
no way legault will cancel christmas in an election year and people won't be following him anymore anyway.
yeah, it's not okay ... quite discouraging that
when hoho becomes hohomicron.
i hope that doesn't surprise anyone. the virus is seasonal and we can see it in europe at the moment (except in a few exceptional countries like the united kingdom which has allowed the virus to circulate without measure since august and sweden whose long-term strategy of not confining seems to be bearing fruit) . i've been saying it for almost a year now, it's the seasonal factors that dictate the shape of the curves, the measurements have a certain influence on the amplitude of the waves, but these are seasonal factors on which we don't. have no controls that decide when we go there.
[complete statistics.] (
since monday, there have been 44 hospitalizations among the unvaccinated, including 8 in intensive care ... and 50 hospitalizations among fully vaccinated, including 9 in intensive care \ *. the vaccinated are three times more numerous than the unvaccinated and have a higher average age, so the vaccine still protects quite effectively, but the communication tactic of talking about a "pandemic of the unvaccinated" is very clearly wrong and completely discredited. people vaccinated can catch it, can transmit it and can be sick, and even if we had a 100% vaccination rate, it is likely that the virus would still circulate and that we would still have seasonal waves. we will have to accept this fact and start living normally.
\ * i would give the cases, but they did not report the november 23 cases by vaccination status due to a "technical error". for what it's worth, excluding 23, it's 2,286 in the unvaccinated and 1,429 in the fully vaccinated.
source: [santé québec twitter feed] (
why he does not close the borders. for real i find it so badly managed this pandemic there. we see that everywhere around us the cases are increasing with a new variant so why the innocent who is in charge does not close the borders and put us in confinement before christmas so that at least at christmas we can see our family?
[deleted]
the vaccines were supposed to be 95% effective. i imagine the 1100 cases are caused by the 10% unvaccinated.
the numbers are rising! it's boring!
here is my contribution to the published daily covid figures.
you should see that at the bar at the job when the band starts playing, it's ridiculous, no more masks, everyone is dancing! if it happens at the casino which is a crown corporation, what does the world think it is in the private establishments? 🤪
we have a third of hospitalizations and a tenth of deaths compared to the same period last year.
no, it is rather encouraging if the number of hospitalizations and deaths remains relatively low.
the vaccine does its job despite all the media bullshit of anti-vaxx.
the disease will eventually become endemic like the flu and we will have to live with it.
the cases are high, yes.
on the other hand, deaths and hospitalizations are low, and that is what is important. in addition, a good part of the cases are young people under 12 years old, who are about to be vaccinated.
so let's see ... it's going to be okay!
lol are no hospitalizations. it's not going well tabarnak we are 8.5 million
not really, the only constant, if you can call it a constant with just 2 years of data, is that during the summer there are a lot less cases. then the waves resume towards the end of the summer. it's not like the flu that appears without fail from year to year at the same time.
> i have been killing myself to say it for almost a year
a year ago you had barely a year of data to draw your conclusions about seasonality, don't be surprised if the world doesn't take you too seriously.
it is clear that it is seasonal, but europe is warmer in the same parallels than here thanks to the sea currents. so we can hardly think that their wave is related to the seasonality of the virus, right?
they are still far from their winter peak. they just live more densely and are less vaccinated than here. could be a factor that i don't know.
entk, for us it is sure that as usual there will be an increase in winter cases.
> i have been killing myself to say it for almost a year
everyone already knows ...
too bad they removed the 12 years + line for vaccination and replaced with a 5 years + line. i would have liked them to keep both.
in any case before the opening of the vaccination for children we were 91% / 88% among the 12+, which i still find admirable. one of the best rates in the world.
> i hate paying a lot
fast fashion is bad. it doesn't last, it pollutes, etc. pay the price and buy the quality if you can afford it. a quality sweater doesn't last 5 years, it lasts 20 if you take care of it.
simons. best value for money for t-shirts. i still use for 7-8 years and my boyfriend too.
the team is not worse
laubainerie! beautiful linen not too expensive, fast shipping, often discounts.
old navy, always attractive discounts
i who almost only wear jeans and plain black or white t-shirts, i am a fan of the team. they also deliver
old navy
currently there are no worse specials!
banana republic and gap are doing no worse discounts these days. you should check it out!
i ordered a thing or two from www.shein.com
cheap, decent quality for the price.
r / buyitforlife quite often recommends llbean.
one day i'll be offered in dale of norway
personally disappointed with the sweaters bought the last few years. it was my place by default but i came back.
everlane is great too. and there is a full cost breakdown for all the items.
i worked at iga and it boiled down to this:
1: you work evenings and weekends with young people your age and that's cool.
2: you work with the old decrepit mornings / afternoons weekdays and it's horrible.
i worked at loblaw at night when i was in high school. besides kicking me out right before i joined a union, they didn't even have the courage to tell me. i go home for my shift and i go to the station wagon with the others. i remember that another dropped a call: "you are just 3 in the evening" and he is answered "well no, roger (fictitious name who designates me) is there. " i didn't pay attention to it but it clearly meant that many knew it. i do my shift and 15 minutes before the end, the team leader calls me to his office. "can you sign this?" i look, that was my letter of resignation.
the manager of the grocery store had the nerve to call me back on monday saying that i was entitled to 2 weeks notice and if i was interested in coming back for two weeks. work with the same wins that played me behind the back.
ah yes, i had my 1st mp3 player stolen in the station wagon and the management got stuck.
costco.
from my experience, walmart would be fantastic if the managers did not exist (seriously, it's the worst bosses i have had), not go to the super c ... way too bs, metro (a family, not a company) is not worse, i never had any problems with the managers but they are really exploited by the top world and it's a bit sad
... but for real what has the most influence on a place are the bosses, not the company. in terms of department i recommend fruits and vegetables, the job is simple, easy customer service and there is always a job to do so quickly
i haven't really seen a difference between metro and iga. but for me, the best department is the fishmonger or the bakery.
not a grocery store, but a chain of stores. absolutely do not work at village des values.
from experience .... metro, but at night.
we place the stock, we make the front of the rows while listening to chom fm.
why is it bad? because i had lessons in the morning and in the afternoon, i took a 4-hour nap and we start again! it was a particularly difficult session.
don't go to iga
i worked at metro when i was young ... the old packers were assholes who took the highest paying cases and the bosses gave me sex schedules, even that sometimes i worked in normal clothes so that they wouldn't get banged to employ too many people in the evening….
i hate every minute of this job. but it must also depend on where you are going to be the grocery store in question… .. maybe those who are in departments are better….
everything that is customer service will piss you off unless it's high-end and again it will cry for nothing. bosses are often your enemies. on the other hand, employees are often the fun of the evening and on weekends, because they are young or often studying. i only worked at avril (vegan and green style supermarket) really cool team, all great environmental and interesting people. the managers are something else, but it is what it is. costco would probably be best, also if not in the grocery store do storage or back / delivery stuff, you're gonna survive
avoid costco like the plague. i spent 3-4 years at my local costco and wanted to die in the end.
when you are a student, you are seasonal, your salary does not move and you have a quarter of the benefits of other employees. there are so many people coming and going that every time you come back to work everyone has forgotten you and it's really hard to make friends with such a large mass of employees.
it's also the most toxic place i've worked, everyone was constantly pushed in the ass by the managers (always checking our item / minute and customer / hour stats to tell us to swarm ), they were always there to watch us. i've never worked in a retail business with so many people doing burnouts and a lot of the managing staff, night staff and morning staff are on the coke to keep up. i don't know if all the branches are like that, but with us the good conditions and the good salary were excuses to get all the juice we had, i always came back drained from the job. everything is fret and in the chain over there, almost no real human contact.
i said all that and i was pretty efficient, the people who remembered me liked me and i often took the lead when there were no managers (like the baskets outside).
i ended up finding a job with a similar salary, but with a livable working environment: the simons.
it depends more on the store itself and its location than the particular chain (apart from costco).
a grocery store in a disreputable neighborhood will have this kind of clientele and will bring its share of problems and abuse.
a grocery store with an ass owner is going to have ass supervisors.
you get the idea.
i worked almost 4 years as an assistant manager in a bakery in an iga about ten years ago and it was not bad until my boss who was double my age wanted to be closer to me and a days told me that she always wanted to become a young person (i was 24) when i refused her advance my life started to be hell.
anyway it was good until a milf got too intense
i worked 6 months at iga before starting cegep. with the schedule i had during my semester, i could only work the fds and the bosses didn't like it, so the last 3 weeks they didn't let me in at all before i was fired.
i then worked for metro for 4 years, for a franchisee. there were salary increases every 6 months, a really stable team without too much staff movement, and eventually you could move up in rank. would not stay there again, but it was ok.
lol it was the same for me at the première moisson, weekday it was just the matantes suzanne who was working. evenings and weekends it was the french girls in pvt and the girls at the bac. my boss was a repressed lesbian and she just hired some really horny girls, and the occasional guy (including me) so it wouldn't look too much. and his gaydar was sick because 50% of my coworkers were lesbians.
you mean the best? it's crazy the same, you can see the hire date on their tag and the last cashier i saw was there since 1998. i'm happy for them if they have good conditions.
i have never worked there but i have known people that yes and they were doing very well, both mentally and financially.
having to go back to costco retail would be on my list
for my part, i found it long and boring in damn working at costco. the only person who made the days fun was hyperactive but didn't often work at the cash desk but damn it i had fun working with her. otherwise it's very similar to the shop job except that you have to look happy, which is the opposite of my strong point.
does the village of values still exist? bin let's see!
nor at rachelle bery
shitpost
*cacapoteau*
i thought he was cute, i don't think the point was to make a fool of himself.
policy aimed at destroying french in canada? wow. i am surprised!!!
oh really! oh how amazing!
/s
maybe it's finally time for ottawa to stop wanting to have the last word on this because like, if these people are good enough for quebec and have been approved by quebec to study and settle there. , so they should also be pretty good for ottawa. as usual, another double bureaucracy harming us.
there have been major issues with fraudulent degrees in recent years. in the case of doctorates in particular, from memory they estimate in the united states that more than 50% of those obtained abroad are false. and this is particularly true for the maghreb.
there are things more important than language when choosing your immigrants, and pretty much at the top of the list you should make sure they aren't crosseurs.
our immigration system would be better for everyone if it was managed 100% by quebec
chinook software probably uses the * durham * plugin
calisse ....
do not say that! anti québécois / french racism does not exist!
the last time i stubbornly stuck with an anglo who was obviously hyper racist towards quebec, i had the culot to call him a twit and i got a 28-day ban for this heinous act of hatred unheard of.
but anti-quebec racism or denying that assimilation was a well-established government directive is aaaallllll good. as long as you do this with “respect”.
so it would be interesting to compare with english speakers from areas known for academic fraud and cheating, like, uh, i don't know, but there was a lot ...
it's ironic because many people on facebook (ex: mtl blog) who are anti-quebec or anti-francophones, these are people who otherwise say they are against racism, xenophobia, etc.
it's great to be anti-racist, but be
the for real, not selectively
well in their shitty rhetoric, quebec is racist.
two negative makes a positive, right? (/ s)
there is no such thing as anti-racism. you are racist or you are not. identity politics is fundamentally racist.
it's more about action… not state. your state is "not racist". if you go to a demonstration against racism, then you are anti-racist.
fundamentally racist identity politics are you talking about white supremacist xenophobic ethno-nationalists? yes very agree with you!
aja that the green week is 50 years old.
despite all that, we are still holding the olympics in china in three months.
let's celebrate ! china number one!
i just hope that a better vaccine will emerge and that the pharma companies don't sit on their current vaccines.
pcq as it is there, the "to live with" will be difficult if it takes recall to the 6 months. at each recall the membership rate will be weaker and weaker.
abuse it there
sending more doses to countries which are not very vaccinated like in africa could not be more beneficial on the long run at the level of the variants?
😉
it's not disabled, it's just more valid ...
soon in quebec, we like communism here too. fuck individual rights and freedoms, we are going to scrap the development of young people to save the boomers.
well yes we know too well will have to take and resume picures for their con covid.
the little phrase: adequately vaccinated will change in a few months.
it makes sense. we know that protection decreases over time.
no difference between that and the annual flu shot.
uighurs? covid? pfff! forget it, take your skis on the plane, leave soon!
so at no time do you think to yourself that they can cancel it later?
especially if you knocked yourself out longer and longer each time.
rna vaccines can be changed quickly, so should the south african variant ever gain momentum, it should be ready soon.
but i'm not too worried, the virus has circulated quickly in ads, but they are very little vaccinated there (28%) and there is no direct link between canada and this country; there are stopovers at the air level.
according to a cbc article, the oral drug recently unveiled by pfizer is expected to work even on this variant. it gives us another way to fight the disease.
it is the covid that will rub their hands. he got the better of us.
yeah, but that doesn't make enough money so it's better to force third doses in rich countries 🤪
"their con's covid"
who are we referring to here? i don't believe that the covid belongs to anyone ...
> resume picures
and how would that offend the great epicurean that you are?
> the little phrase: adequately vaccinated will change in a few months.
shouldn't we follow the discoveries we make on the virus and vaccination? do you have to stick to the original plan?
except that not being vaccinated against the flu does not prevent you from going to public places. the stakes are distinctly different
my parents were anti-vax and it was a real pain for me, but only during my adult life. the number of times i got round eyed stares by a doctor because i hadn't gotten the most fucking basic vaccines ... i was ashamed.
show her the once upon a time episode on vaccines
it's really rough when it's our family. my cousin (we are in our forties) is afraid of catching god knows what in contact with vaccinated people. i still can't understand its logic, it really pains me :(
at least she won't become "autistic."
joking aside, fuck his people there.
tell you that i am my parents who are anti-vaxx and who talk to me about satan, the illuminati and the world government. note that i pack and that i have my two vaccines
posivotated for parental involvement of op.
do you have to be without plan to involve kids in this story ...
at the same time, you can't expect them to have judgment.
having said that, i will talk to them in the solid case. if they want to be morons, that's their call. but they would not start educating my child with their certain silliness.
fucking anti-vax corrupting the youth with their shit ideology
unfortunately, psychology research shows that a child's circle of friends has more influence than parents. when your child is badly surrounded it is a hard fight.
poor owl :(
are you going to talk to the parents too?
pu able to do the same!
i hope they won't make you sick! :(
my favorite series and my favorite doctor: 
what makes me kid is that they impose their ideas on people who are not of the same opinion after we have told them that we do not want to hear about it
most
if you impose facts on them with articles / research to support "we do not respect their rights"
i would suggest that although it can be annoying spending time to talk to kids concerning these contrarian ideas, it is probably good practice of critical thinking that should be encouraged especially in their future that most likely will be even more heavily influenced by fake news and divisivness.
"kids adapt so well, better than any adult when it comes to measurements."
-message used over and over again regarding the mask in schools.
a good hand of applause to our totally disconnected leaders. these divisions and the consequences fall to them.
[deleted]
all kidding aside, does anyone know what their end goal is?
what, they are trying to convince us that the tit-clowns pu teeth in mouth who yell at the head in front of the parliament in quebec have fully understood the nasty shenanigans of all the governments of the world and that the vaccine will kill us all. just stay them, like 5% of the population, big idiots, the elite of bs society?
like .. kill me right now if it's to live with this world 🙄 their argument is not convincing
in distress?
that would be a good idea - mtl toronto by car is so long and flat!
what a horrible article. trains run up to 200km / h according to the article but we compare the average speed to the maximum tgv speed. so if we make a rule of three, the average speed of the tgv would therefore be: 180 km / h. then they compare the plane including the waiting time. the train also has a waiting time.
some sort of high speed link between montreal and tr and quebec would be great no matter which method you choose.
linking it to ontario ... well ... that makes me fear for what remains of french in montreal. but not having anything other than the car is hard. maybe it could be okay and just bring more tourism.
the train has a much shorter wait time than a plane whether you like it or not. a plane is 1 hour minimum. a train is 20 min recommended.
knowing that in addition the article takes into account the travel time to the airport which for montreal is simply catastrophic while the central station is much better served by public transport.
maybe the 15 min banding waits are indeed a bit obsolete because most montreal - toronto will probably just have a carry-on suitcase. but the fact remains that in a train you travel with your luggage and you don't really have to wait.
on the other hand yes i agree for such an important axis, the speed is very low. it should be 300km / h at maximum speed. the cost is a fact, but if we don't do it now, we never will.
not all torontonians threaten french in montreal! but i admit it's a problem ...
- a guy from toronto who works in french in montreal
we usually dine at noon across north america.
we dine at around noon. if you're talking about the evening meal, it's supper here. supper is usually between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m .: it depends on how long it takes people to come back from work and prepare the meal.
the social norm is from noon to 1 am.
between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. i have breakfast early in the morning with the kids' routine and i'm always hungry come 11am.
when i'm hungry.
in english, lunch = noon, dinner = evening, but in french, lunch = noon, dinner = evening
are you talking about the midday meal or the evening meal?
for my part, i only eat one meal a day, and it is in the evening.
12hrs but 11:30 am sometimes
if dinner = midday meal:
in my purely french-speaking jobs we dined at sharp noon. while working with english people i have noticed that they tend to have dinner around 12:30, since the typical day is 8 to 4 rather than 9 to 5, doing so creates a shorter afternoon.
if dinner = evening meal.
personally i noticed that we dine around 6:00 pm and the same for the anglos. the french europeans dine much later around 7:30 p.m.
in my area there were families who dined before 11 a.m. and had dinner before 4 a.m. my family was pretty good at noon and 5 a.m. now i live in town and i was surprised to have lunch at 1 a.m. and dinner after 6 a.m.
we dine at medi.
if you're talking about french dinner, we have dinner at 5-6 p.m., but i've already tried the idea of having dinner at 8 a.m. and honestly it's not that bad.
it's you just me who writes dinner for noon but if i spoke about supper i would write dinner
not bad at noon, but sometimes a little later
i usually have dinner around 1 p.m.
it depends if i have a bonus because i work during the week of a public holiday or not.
between 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. for the vast majority of people.
between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., depending on the context.
personally, i like 11:30 am.
it's not bad around noon both in quebec and in canada.
personally, i am a heretic who eats when he is hungry and who sleeps when he is sleepy without worrying about the standards or the regularity of the thing. but a certain regularity is considered beneficial, must be admitted.
i take my dinner between 1 and 2 am. defies 4 am to 4:30 am. i eat when i am hungry.
when i work, i dine when i have time, and when i am not working, i dine when i think about it.
so either i don't dine all the time, which is the case when i have lunch after 10:00 a.m., otherwise it's between 11:30 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
the diner? 8:30 pm on average at my place, but we are very busy relatively to the average i think.
lunch (lunch) at noon.
thank you opc
optimal pc enthusiast, the first version was really better.
oh no!
anyway.
oh no ! quickly, we are doing everything possible to recover this brave citizen who will certainly be a great enrichment when he returns home!
i hope he will leave them a bad review on yelp!
phew, every time i see a story like this, i have a thought for the parents ... imagine, you are raising your son in canada telling yourself that he is going to have the best chances in the world, he becomes an adult, forms his own personality and his own life, and eventually he leaves to join isis. brutal.
*and nothing of value was lost.*
we're all gonna cry for him. / s
"sorry, i can't find 'i burned it' among the valid reasons for issuing an emergency passport."
> burns his canadian passport to renounce his canadian citizenship
> nicknamed "the canadian" in arabic anyway
<nelson>he has! he has!<nelson>
leave him there. canada nor quebec wants him back.
oupelaille
he pissed on canada, leave him there.
i'm a canadian muslim but please, leave him there, he pissed on us.
do not help him out.
at this point, it's a bit like being a crips in bloods territory.
it's cute being a terrorist, until you're at war with other terrorists.
really trisse ....
worse? we love it ...
i mean the guy is a victim of serious psychological manipulation, can we feel * a little * bad at least for his family? i dunno.
trudeau thinks like that.
facebook and google reviews also made it there.
i had read about it at one point, often it is the third generation that decides to leave because it idealizes the country of origin of the grandparents. grandparents left for a reason, their children were either born in their host country or moved very young, but were exposed all their lives to the trauma of their parents, it is the grandchildren who never are. went there who think that it cannot be worse than the racism of which they are often still victims in the country where they were born ...
a solution that is not for everyone: sew them. (my husband similarly had the same problem, and i am having him now.)
you need a serger or a sewing machine with elastic stitches (like zigzag or flash stitch), fabric (which you can order online, even knit in montreal).
jalie, a quebec company, has very beautiful patterns for men (sizes 2 years children to xxl men in the same pattern).
but the advantage is always tailor-made and it makes you feel good.
good luck with your research!
probably a manifestation of what english speakers call [vanity sizing] ( over time, clothes get bigger. so we can be proud of our size: we wear medium and not large, so we are not that big in the background!
some merchants (not that much) indicate the true size, in centimeters, of their clothes. we must encourage them!
i would like to have this problem. i'm 6'3 '' and 95% of the clothes i try on (large or x-large) are too short.
it's because of vanity sizing. you must be m now. the big guys don't want to see big sizes and if they see they fit a smaller size, they buy more.
batinsse in my case is the opposite. the open sea no longer suits me, i have to buy xlarge.
try them? i am 5'8 and the small still fits me because the medium often makes me a jacket.
it also depends on the seats unfortunately are not all on the same model
so you don't wear offshore, you wear medium ...
wordans.ca
i order the next level brand. 50/50. blow adjusted.
i have 6'5 "245 pounds i take xxl. if that's not the fit fit; xl.
my boyfriend has been in the small all his life. i ordered 5 small t-shirts the other day and half is 2x too large for him. but the man xsmall is never offered. fun times.
i don't know how you are shaped, i weigh 165-170lbs at 6ft and wear medium very comfortably.
i am 6'5 and have the same problem, the wide is too short and xl too wide. fuck shopping for sweaters
personally, i just go to the stores of used things like rebirth and i try before i buy..🙄
one more reason not to go and live in the suburbs it looks like
6'7 "here ... i have to go to maximus or grover's big & tall in verdun. yes it's boring taboo not being able to dress in a" normal "place. fortunately my wife had sewing lessons she can make adjustments for me but ... teka being fat and tall is a mess.
the chinese do not have our size, so it is normal that their notions of "size" are a little ... out of step ...
yeah i think the adage that you're never better served than by yourself makes sense in this case ...
it is very relevant as an observation. i didn't know this trick to make us feel better about continuing to eat * ambegueurs *. thank you ;-)
and old navy who stopped selling tall sizes, which were affordable.
what is a sweater that is too long ?????
i have them delivered to me so obviously i try them.
the brands i ordered, i already have them at home and they make me ... but today's large comes to my knees. i could have been pretty cool and the dimensions of a t-shirt are designed in such a way that they are worn as an asteur dress?
i remember doing a last minute shopping trip in the united states, i was really surprised to see that all the sizes that were left were xxs, xs, and s, while all the people were tearing m, l , xl.
it's the opposite here
by the end of the month, all service providers are obliged to activate the stir / shaken system which is supposed to block a good part of these calls.
it remains to be seen what it will really give!
the police are coming to arrest you but to make it more fun, they decided to call you to warn you.
i guess you ignore them? if you take the time to listen to it, it'll end up saying “press 1 to talk to border services”. it did to me yesterday morning.
so i weighed 1, for 5-10min i played the game that i was stressed and that i was going to send them money. and when i got tired i said to the guy “go fuck yourself, find a real job and never call this number again”. he was so angry that he sent me shit and he was the one who hung up on me. believe me they are never going to call back, they hate wasting their time as well.
same thing in time with the appeals of the fake revenue canada. took 5 min to answer and fool them and they never called me back. my girlfriend who just ignores calls got called more than 10 times.
i have indian friends and they gave me a big name in hindi.
when i get such a call from a person with a hindi accent i shout:
bôssadiké! (phonetic)
it seems to be working.
ps it means something involving the mother's genitalia, like. use only sparingly.
it is true that it is fat. i feel bad for the people who have to work in a call center to cheat in order to survive.
they have found that they bring up local numbers when they call. this week it was the local restaurant and i did not answer. i had their fucking message on my voicemail.
there is also a dude who called me pcq supposedly that i had just tried to call him. but i absolutely had to call nobody that day and i had no numbers in my history, so i told myself that it's dirty we use my number
first, never respond. second, be patient. you can also put that you do not accept calls outside your contacts. me at one point i had like a minimum of 5 scam calls per day. i've had nothing for a few months now.
although it is not that kind of call, i received a new variant of scam during the week: i receive a text thursday outside my contacts saying just "we know each other"
i thought about answering but, instead, i haven't even "seen" that text yet and it still has the associate's "new message" notification. no further text was entered afterwards.
if that's true, will you tell me who starts a new conversation with "we know each other", rather than "hello _________ is ________".
....... or unless it's really michaël, with whom i improvised in secondary 3, who found my cell number and who wants to reconnect after a couple of decades (?)
i have already received about 10 in the same day. i had 3 yesterday morning and i was afraid it was one of those days but luckily it stopped.
i'm in the same situation as you, i have calls from numbers i don't know that i need to take, so i can't filter.
answer and then say in english ... you have reached constable smith of rcmp please stay on the line so we may trace your call .... he hangs and he does not call back.
to my knowledge, other than messing around with the call center, there isn't much that can be done. my favorite tactic is asking who they want to talk to without giving them any information? "there are several people using this phone, who's having a problem?"
scams are more and more sophisticated. i received a call from services canada and it was a recorded message telling me that my social insurance number had been "terminated". yeah right
usually this type of call robot is linked to an application that you recently installed on your cell and that sold your number.
there is a very good episode of the reply all podcast (from a few years ago) which explains this phenomenon.
me, today it was the chinese who called me, but only 3 times.
answer in french and don't say a word in english, you'll see they won't call you back.
another option, tell them you had 5 kilos of coke in your tank
i work in a call center and one of my coworkers was called by lenny, it was really hilarious to listen to the call again
if i have time, i answer and try to play the game.
with koodo you can activate an option that plays a recorded message asking the caller to tap a number to continue the call. since i activated this i no longer receive these robocalls. it works great
it's really boring, i too get a lot and i never answer. i block them, but i always get called back by genre 10 different numbers. i no longer respond to anything that i don't know now, unless specifically waiting for a call. it is made disagreeable in criss.
it's boring, but with the desjardins scandal, they sold our numbers: /
you can always chat with them about curry recipes.
win-win!
i am south african. the problem is not that we are a developing country or that we do not have enough vaccines as the other comments suggest. in fact, a lot of vaccines are wasted here. south africa is one of the most hesitant vaccine countries in the world. much of the country thinks vaccines are a plot to, say, slaughter blacks (apparently that's bill gates' goal). in my opinion, south africans are even more hesitant vaccine than americans.
also, almost 13% of our population is hiv positive, so when someone hiv positive has been infected with covid-19, they are infected with the virus for a longer time (they have a weaker immune system) who give themselves more time for the virus to mutate. it is not a coincidence that it is the second covid variant that was detected here.
forgive my french please.
personally, i have reached the point where i have reached my tolerance level for restrictive measures. there would be no way i would follow restrictions that prevent me from coming together, unless the apocalypse like 100 is literally announced a few deaths from covid every day, but i very, very strongly doubt that 'we come to this.
for me it was very clear from the start that the covid was going to mutate very often and become endemic. i did exercises with my biomol teacher on the covid variants (namely the classifications of these according to the changes in amino acids + the effect brought by these changes) and there are thousands of them. already, who all have the possibility of mutating as well. at this point the chances of eradication are extremely zero, so for me any strategy based on this is obsolete. if it were only for me i would advocate an approach based on taking personal risks; everything should be done to ensure that people at risk can live in safety (for example by offering teleworking, by offering online shopping services, by ensuring that health workers and pabs are vaccinated, by carrying out frequent tests in these environments, etc.) while allowing as much as possible for people not at risk to continue living a life that is worth living, therefore a life that is not limited to confinements in each cold season, curfews and promises to end the crisis in exchange for restrictions that change every two weeks.
the next step would be to get developing countries vaccinated and stop thinking about us rich countries for 5 minutes. we are wondering if we should vaccinate children under 5 years old and if the general population not at risk would benefit from a third dose when the most vulnerable people in developing countries have not even had the chance to receive a first dose if they wish. it is completely absurd from my point of view, and we are contributing to the emergence of new variants that afterwards we try to counter with measures that only postpone the inevitable.
it would be good for the better-off countries to help the less developed countries to get vaccinated / to have access to the vaccine precisely to avoid situations like that where we end up in our corner with our beautiful vaccination rate and they give us a variant that risk to consecrate all that in the trash. it's not like it's their fault, but we clearly can do something to correct the situation.
edit: apparently that would be wrong, to be taken with a grain of salt
i will say that there is no threshold in the number of cases. it's more a question of hospitalizations and deaths, but there it goes even further than me and even the death toll cannot be taken on its own to justify any measures.
we really have to ask ourselves whether the measures we have in place are working well and whether adding more would have a significant impact.
for example, we will say that the health passport makes it possible to avoid 50% of potential cases (i am making this up for the discussion). will closing the restaurants where 100% of customers are vaccinated anyway really change anything or is it going to prevent us from 5 asymptomatic cases across quebec and be very costly economically and socially?
at this point, i think we can't just say to ourselves "there are ax dead a day so that justifies closing everything". the question must be asked whether not only will the measures be effective but whether they are sustainable in the long term.
the vaccination passport and the mask in public places are the only restrictive measures which as long as i can be kept for a long time. everything else is only going to have a marginal effect and cause more destruction and distress than anything else.
i think at this point the government knows that and will act accordingly. things would have to go really but really badly for us to have new measures and with the vaccination coverage we have i just don't see how that could happen.
in my opinion, the best thing to do when leaving would be to close all borders to avoid a wave of infected arrivals. but hey, since we are a province, it's clear that it's not the same as it works ...
we will soon have to live with this virus.
> or at this point, we let go, whatever?
if we come to this one day, it is because over the course of the mutations we will have reached a very contagious variant with a very low fatality rate.
> potentially be more contagious than the delta variant and which could perhaps partially bypass the defenses conferred by the vaccines currently available
more contagious, can bypass vaccines, but is it more deadly?
we close the borders, we keep the rest as before ... but we stop postponing the surgeries and examinations necessary to make room for the unvaccinated.
moderna has already said that a 3rd dose would undoubtedly protect against the new variant, but that we would be clear about it in a few weeks. it's going to become like the flu; we get vaccinated from time to time and we live with it.
i'm getting ready for another great year getting pissed off by everyone as a young person at risk. worse to remain locked up and isolated completely while other braille not being able to do the minimum to allow us to just exist like them.
it's not complicated, non-stop testing in the workplace and at school. test for travelers, test test test test test one two
the faster we act, the faster we will get out of this wave.
note that i said the variant was discovered in south africa, but that doesn't mean it originated in south africa in the same way that the spanish flu didn't start in spain. in fact, at this point i would rather believe that it comes from elsewhere, but that it has been detected in south africa because there is a system which makes it possible to detect new variants more quickly than to d 'other places.
also, i agree that the reasons that lead to being hesitant to get vaccinated in several countries are very complex and may depend on several historical or geopolitical factors that i have no control over. i am definitely not in a position to judge.
on the other hand, i believe that in the west we are currently very well positioned in terms of the vaccination rate and the number of vaccines available and that at this point we would be a winner to ensure that all those who want to be vaccinated in the world also has free access.
13% hiv positive !!! all that was not cool.
to this day, i still wonder about the connection between bill gates and the pandemic
it gives the impression that they chose the first billionaire on board to overcome their frustration
to date, the strange strategy of the conspirators seems to
1. imagine an imaginary scenario in their head
2. be in criss after said non-existent scenario
3. trying to convince others that they must be angry too because of the scenario they have invented
i think this video explains well how conspis work: 
at the same time, i can understand that populations so marginalized by the government are skeptical about vaccination.
very good french!
according to [wikipedia] ( it is adult prevalence of hiv / aids = 17.30% for south africa and according to [wikipedia] ( / /en.wikipedia.org/wiki/south_africa#hiv/aids), in 2018 it was 20.4%. 13% is therefore for the total population, and 20.4% is for the 15-49 age group. it should not indeed help with what you call "vaccine hesitant country".
what would a person at risk be like for you? because about half of quebec is morbidly overweight, there are also smokers, there are those who have one form or another of cancer. there are those who have autoimmune diseases, there are also asthmatics etc. etc.
we are starting to have quite a few more people in the at-risk pool than in the not-at-risk pool….
all these beautiful people there most often remain locked up so that those who are less at risk can continue to spread covid?
degeneration of my aieux.
degenerations by my aïeux.
a truly disturbing apology for the past.
"and worse, my little girl, you change your partner all the time
when you do bullshit, you run away by having an abortion ”… come on ..
degenerations of my forefathers.
be.
edit; came to me all dapper, thinking i was original with my choice; i read the other comments and it is practically all this answer there.
it comforts me, thank you.
eric lapointe's entire discography, how do you feel?
embark my beautiful kain, and degenerations of my aïeux. two tunes that i hate so much that it makes me aggressive if i hear them!
degeneration, it has aged badly. it was a hit when i was a teenager and i didn't take the time to understand the lyrics. now that i take the time to do it, it feels like not that inspiring all of a sudden.
honestly, celine dion doesn't really like it. she seems universally adored, but i find her songs pretty dull and her voice really too nasal.
any kind of linda lemay song.
it is not possible for me to describe how his lyrics suck.
blue jeans blue hoodie ...
the list is long, very long.
the one who child the most; the 7-up man - the respectables.
honorable mention to all stefie shock songs, criss that it's shit.
you like a badboy ....
strange of dobacaracol.
we talk about you in black silence
i cringe every time i hear it on the radio
quickly like that i think of adam and eve. it repeats adam and eve 12 thousand times, we understood i think lol
all the tunes of the 2 brothers, i would surely love them around a campfire if they would be the cousins of one of my boyfriends but popular like that i do not understand her.
pomal all the songs of the 3 chords
simple plan, do you count? if so, their touch with marie-mai.
anything from the 3 chords. not only for their crimes against music, but because i also suspect them of being the progenitors of modern pseudo surrealism.
no longer reminds me of the title but there's a song by roxanne bruneau that annoys me. i think it's because roxanne bruneau's voice usually annoys me.
as a cegep teacher, i would say that the soul / frozen ratio is 1/15 or more. i almost never had the impression of having hot students in my classes, while there are several frosts per session.
caliss is the cegep of joliette !!!
no more at 8am in the morning, after dropping it solid the day before and realizing at sunrise that you have a class that will start soon ...
there are a couple of days that have been missed on the board.
honorable mentions to professors who pretended nothing.
hot-boot?
where does this horror come from?
ps: it's weird i thought it was you the 35-year-old guy who is still at cegep and who is held in associations.
wait until you get to uni.
in quebec, a place where you can meet a future engineer with 2 bottles of drink clapped in the hands at 10 am in the hallway, we call it:
a university!
spotted the humanities guy
me to date my cegep c just faces of depressed under masks and sleepless nights
it should still be noted that this is a good place ... ** for cégep students **
the worst two years of your life or the best six.
at cégep? more like gelé-soulier
or belly play diablo ii with your friends in the computer room all morning frozen like a bin, eating chocolate muffins in the cafeteria instead of going to class.
the smell of friday morning after a stop-gap thursday at the ita in la pocatière… i still taste it.
“drunk as a boot”
ah bin the cégep de joliette, it brings back memories.
at the time, the world used to stuck hash in a bottle between two courses .. in a large hall at the cegep de holiette .. afterwards they farted their faces at the bar across the street in front (at l'azile ) and / or the be at the time.
my god to read you everyone was broken at cegep ...
i never arrived frozen / drunk in a yard, what importance do you give to your lessons .. it will be nice for the next generation ..
we are subtle
this is my cegep !!
it should have been jonquière's .... 🎶
mouaip, recognized immediately too!
every time we talk about hiring someone other than an english-speaking north american, the same empty debate comes up.
if it was really about skill, where are the russian, swedish or finnish leaders in the nhl? out of 32 teams, we have 31 north american leaders (well done columbus!). are you really going to make me believe that no russian gm is capable of being among the best 32 in the world?
it's an nhl friends club. no one hires the best, it's just networking. it makes me laugh when we imply that we don't hire the best, just because we dare to look elsewhere than in the gang of white anglers recycled 12 times.
do not.
bilingual, absolutely. but english can be the mother tongue without any problem.
absolutely.
we see the return of the lady from eaton everywhere, imagine the symbol if the senior management does not speak french.
i vote for patrick roy, just because i like chaos and he's never lukewarm.
but my brain says mr. darche.
absoutely. the english before the quiet revolution also thought they were better. the ch is the gateway to the nhl for virtually all french-speaking coaches.
ah, the good old take "french speakers are not competent enough to do the job".
while we deprive ourselves of talent by hiring only french speakers, we let those we have trained go. julien breezbois is a good example of ceo, joel bouchard and butcher guy for a coach, and danault for players. the list is very very long.
what is the point of training them if we are to let them go afterwards.
we are a gallic village surrounded by roman camps. yes, we are struggling, we pride ourselves on the freshness of the fish, but we are all gallic and the language unites us.
"to be conquered without peril one triumphs without glory"
i am french-speaking quebecois and proud of being, to be a hockey pro i would be much more proud to win here than elsewhere.
the ch has always been gross incompetence to train, supervise, and retain his talents, ye more the problem in my opinion.
no. equal talent i would say yes but if a better gm or coach is available, at this level you should go and look for the best. you can surround him with french-speaking support if necessary. someone who should also make an effort to learn a minimum would be a big plus
its true, you are right! i had never seen it like this. that would make a lot of sense for a rebuilding club that has to fish and develop talent when you consider that a lot of the talent comes from europe.
far from being a fan of columbus but jarmo is on the solid boat. he's one of my favorite gms in the league right now. it's time to diversify the management but the teams are too much in the old boys club mentality for that to happen
i would even accept a unilingual anglo sincere in his approach and his efforts to learn french. but no less than that.
i have a feeling for darche too. especially with the rumors about gorton, that would make him an experienced guy for the backer and molson avoids controversy by hiring a franco as gm.
martin brodeur also has a good head on his shoulders and a lot of leadership experience with the blues, devils and team canada. he could make a good candidate.
i am voting so that we do not give a platform to people who engage in domestic violence ...
the point was especially that we could go find someone with experience in coaching a national league team instead of looking for someone who just coach junior or american league.
yes, you're right. it makes a good duet and to be frank, i'm a little bitter to have lost julien brisebois. hiring mathieu darche would be a little revenge :-)
yes! excellent idea.
that makes too much sense so it's not gonna be him
it's tj filled the center bell as a company they have zero problems
indeed, it is a good argument.
however, i was not serious when i mentioned "casseau".
before marde's comments arrive she is a farmer so yes a pickup is required.
my girlfriend was offered a full-time remote job from the outaouais for the cisss de l'abitibi ... she hasn't even finished her studies yet!
* i crash with my tank.
“it's the government's fault”.
difficult to do better as a cliché on this generation ...
in my time, we would crash in the woods. we had a fire and we waited for the next tank. no cell tower, nothing.
too late, duhaime and his fans have already shown their weak qi.
in the region, everyone should have a pick-up or an suv, i don't see the problem.
it's when you're in town that it's ridiculous to have.
waiting for the next tank in a big snowstorm with zero visibility, of course.
i think it's quite normal to expect a good cellular network everywhere. what if it was someone getting mugged for example?
it's qs lol
so exactly like every day of the week.
in a region in a rural area perhaps. i don't see the need if you live in chicoutimi in a residential area.
> everyone should have a pickup or an suv
i live in the region and i don't need it.
the road that leads to my house closes at least once a year because of bad road conditions, and i have never taken the enclosure so far, even if i do not drive a 4 × 4.
how many people would that be who should have a pickup? surroundings?
why is this response downvoted? it makes a lot of sense to denounce the lack of network coverage.
i'm not saying if he had guns or promoted violence but because of a swimsuit? really?
real anything. the video is literally him and his girlfriend bathing, bbqing and drinking champagne in their backyard for 3 minutes ... absolutely no nudity, nothing provocative, nothing shocking!
[le clip en question](
religious teachers who physically and verbally abused students, no problem, but swimsuits and dark skin, oh no !!
ah, the anglos. these great prudes ... and racists, too (although they ignore it themselves) ...
oh boy, they haven't seen my english teacher in high school ..! he had a 'gangster' music video with guns and girls.
the good woman from school must have been jealous of the body of the woman in the clip and decided to take justice into her own hands!
the great class.
the school has the right to condemn a teacher whose parallel life promotes values other than those of the college. a little decorum please?
the video and the lyrics are totally inappropriate.
[removed]
we have to take the broom out of the ass, let's see! but don't come and play the race card ....
in addition, the girl in the clip is his girlfriend.
it's quite harmless as a clip. it's a bunch of clichés that have been around for decades, but nothing shocking.
i can't wait for rap music to stop abusing autotune.
for the rest, organizations tend to race to the bottom. they want beige people who don't mind standing (and often putrid) water in their systems.
suspended for that ?! just for that?! must be prudish in tabarnak!
entk, this is going to advertise him.
we cannot compare a religio-conservative era and our bipolar era.
😉
i grew up in châteauguay, and i don't understand their business ... the new frontiers school board, it's the english-speaking schools, but the guy works at gabrielle-roy, a french school?
what is inappropriate?
ok boomer.
why not close on monday?
many families take advantage of sundays to shop for groceries.
i worked in the fruit and vegetable department of an iga a few years ago. my manager was having a hard time finding and keeping his staff so he suggested that the manager offer a base salary of $ 15 / hr in his department. he justified that because it's downtown, very busy, stressful customers, etc ...
the director answered no because "i trust that there are still people who will give their 100% to work for the simple love of work" or bullshit of the genre. like what to want to earn a salary that has allure is to be in the money, superficial. meanwhile she was probably making $ 100,000 / year.
the truth is, the big grocery chains want to avoid setting a precedent at all costs because it can then be used in other branches' negotiations. above all, they don't want a living wage to become the norm. this policy comes from above, from sobeys in the case of iga, and does not necessarily even reflect the individual opinions of store owners or managers.
it is clear that the majority of grocery stores do not want to close on sunday. they know that their customers are not going to wait until the next day for what they need, they will instead go somewhere else that is open.
grocery stores will never close on their own on sunday, unless it becomes law. and the chances of that happening are virtually nil.
as a humorist said, whose name escapes me:
"minimum wage is like employers saying : i'd pay you less... but i can't."
sigh, yeah no sorry, i work crazy monday to friday, i need sunday for shopping. the idea of closing on sunday goes back to mass. whether they close on monday or tuesday if they are so keen to close.
have you ever been to the costco on sunday?
the world is shopping for groceries. no need for a law to close a business on sunday if they want to close it they close their store ...
closing grocery stores on sundays will hurt students more than anything else and piss off the world.
to put even more regulation? so you don't have manpower to operate on sunday, close your doors. no need to penalize those who are able to operate on sunday
i do not understand that these proposals keep coming back.
if you don't have manpower available on sunday, offer better wages. you do not want? ben closes on sunday. supply and demand is not rocket science.
for my part, i'll go to a grocery store that chooses to be open when i need it.
more broadly, it is by adding 19th century constraints like that on the retail trade that a player like amazon fresh will end up landing and picking up the pactol ...
close all the retail businesses one day a week, it would help a lot the lack of manpower also increase the quality of life of people in these jobs so we could all relax a bit from shopping one day a week and enjoy life .
did you all fall for it ???? the government that decides when a store stays open is in your head ....
if the store wants to close on sunday, it closes if it's a small day and there is a lack of people but if a store has a short day it is wednesday, well it closes on wednesday ...
it is not up to the government to decide.
ayayaye where are we going
close it on monday. on sundays, there are students to do part of the job all day.
i own a few ecological grocery stores. we have no one for minimum wage. a good employee who is happy to be there has to be paid for (and not only in $)
anything. if grocers gave real student schedules to those who are studying rather than forcing them to work 30+ hours per week, they wouldn't have this problem. i see young people everywhere who want to work part-time but are refused positions because we are looking for full-time employees. not everyone wants to "make a career" in a grocery store, and that's okay, the subways and igas of this world would have to understand that.
if there is a lack of employees, it is neither saturday nor sunday that you should close because students are mainly on weekends that work.
in the end, if it is profitable to increase the salary to open on sunday they will do it, but for now, it does not seem profitable? if a trader is ready to close instead of increasing wages, it is clear that we are losing profitability. or well it's a chain that works in salary step and you have nothing to say ..
we are witnessing the fall of terminal capitalism. the exploitation of workers is finally at its end
i think it's cool that we make everyone work from 9 to 5 from monday to friday. not only does it create huge traffic jams, but it also makes it almost impossible to do your shopping during the week (knowing that most of them are also on the same schedule). close on sunday, i don't think it will help anyone.
once again, offer a nice salary and the world will come. right now it's possible to be hired for $ 18 an hour in a factory where you don't have to deal with customers who talk to you in the junkyard all day long. why would anyone choose to work in a minimum wage grocery store?
and the government does not want to raise it, claiming 'predictability' for the employer.
it is the jester of the economy who said that paul arcan this morning.
not on sunday caliss the fair is going to be taken to stores on saturday. do it during the week!
> all these ambitions, however, presuppose a vehicle, a means of transmission, through which communication takes place: and this vehicle is language. it is through it that we gain access to anthropological culture and high culture. at the moment our language (should i really give examples) is in bad shape, not to say despised. the school can help. but good collective decisions are also essential to nurture this culture, to make it known and loved, to prepare the pupil to live in it and to enrich it.
> ** how to explain then that the government in place refuses to make compulsory the attendance of the french cegep for allophones and francophones? if the defense and promotion of culture, in both senses of the word, are one of the tasks of the school, this inaction in the face of the state of french in our country is entirely inexplicable. **
i personally know and admire baillargeon. i know he understood the subject for a long time, but i had not read it yet.
remember that uhaul trucks drink a lot and gas is expensive.
u-haul sets one-way prices based on the number of trucks they have in each seat. so if there is currently a shortage in montreal and a surplus in sainte-anne-des-monts, they will make you pay dearly. your price could be very different next year. source: i regularly read / r / uhaul because i'm weird as well. besides, sometimes there is an employee in this sub who unofficially helps with different scenarios.
for example, you can try an in-between. you book for, say, montreal-quebec (or montreal-montmagny, or ...) and if the price is right, you add the mileage and excess time before leaving.
the last option? bring the truck back to montreal? get back down in your car afterwards. i realize it's not ideal but to save $ 4000 i would think about it solidly.
edit: if you are able to do this in 1-2 days you might also be able to find yourself a 'friend' who brings the truck back relatively inexpensively.
> i would go twice the distance for the third of the price, what the fuck?
because there is no driver ...
step 1. sell everything on kijiji.
step 2. buy everything there.
have you checked out the long distance mover?
otherwise, you can look at container delivery services. i know it exists, i just can't find a company that does. kind of like [gocube] ( but bigger.
teleportation.
buy a truck, rent a trailer. made the move. resell the truck for the same price you paid.
a bit extreme but probably the cheapest method in the end
if you decide to go with u-haul you have to remember that they do not guarantee your reservation.
you reserve a truck and when you arrive to pick it up they just tell you that they don't have any more. not their problem.
u-haul it's just okay if you improvise needing it today. no way to plan
if your car can have a small trailer behind, you bring only the essentials and you sell the excess ...
otherwise i think your idea is the cheapest, ie to take a uhaul, bring it back and take the train back to gaspésie.
on the other hand, your prices are intense, are you moving on july 1st?
because my mover asked us $ 100 an hour, 3 guys included and the truck and therefore the gas for the truck….
from home, the gaspé is 8:30 am, let's say 8:30 am x 2, 5 pm, add an extra for gasoline and that it is mainly road…. let's put a $ 2000- $ 2500… how do they calculate her starting $ 5000 tone? even that it would have cost me less for 2 guys and there is surely a package for 1 guy only since you don't need a mover….
how do they explain the invoice to you?
indeed, but i can not believe that it would cost me 4000 $ of gas lol
but let's say i know the date in december and i reserve, the price will be fixed, right?
i need to add the time and mileage before? not after?
oh yes, definitely! i was just wondering if anyone had a better idea!
no, you didn't understand. if i take the truck in montreal and leave it in gaspésie, uhaul estimates at $ 6000 for 4 days and 1000km. if i take it to montreal and bring it back to montreal, it costs me $ 160 and about $ 1,800 in extra mileage, so $ 2,000. so, the third of the price, but i do twice the distance. there is no driver, no matter the situation.
yeah, no. we have fully equipped ourselves in the last year. it will cost me more to re-equip me, and it will be very boring. i don't change country, i travel 1000km.
you don't count the move as such (just your 8.5 hour drive), the fact that the truck surely won't make the trip in 8.5 hours, the hotel night you have to pay for because they don't. 24+ hours return at once, the essence of a truck. at $ 2,000, that would be surprising. it is a specialized service, there is a premium.
the 26feet around 640 $ round trip
i did toronto - mtl and it rolls around at 25l / 100
last time i hired one, their distance estimate was insufficient, it didn't give me enough distance to drop off my things and bring the truck back to their agent two villages away. so they added miles to me on the contract when i left for montreal. but we're talking about 50km here, not 500, so we'll have to ask them if it's done.
my edit if you find someone?
either way, good luck. we will do something similar when my wife finishes university (reorientation).
for the curious, it is a greek letter which means "small o" [o-micron] in contrast to "large o" [o-mega]:
thanks, i love the reference!
futurama comes from the same guy who created the simpsons. coincidence? i do not believe!
i would have preferred the "omnikrom" variant! bounce !!!
ah! i immediately thought of the transformers 
me too, reading omicron i thought about that, and it's been 15 years
after the covidiots it will be the omnicons
me, i like the fact that who have skipped a letter of the alphabet so as not to offend china .... they know who they work for and that we will never have a real answer on the origin of the disease.
as an alien, i have to tell you this:
the earth is a planet of a very rare type and because of this it deserves to be part of the treaty of planets with protected natural heritage.
however, this planet has a particular infection that needs to be cured under this treaty. indeed, humanity is eating away at what the planet must be protected for.
if humans fail to repent, we will have to deal with the abomination caused. it's a shame, as humanity is on its way to having the stature to become our allies, but if they don't demonstrate good faith in preserving this kind of intergalactic treaty, we won't be able to speak for you in the assembly, who will give a damn about your economic prosperity.
"there is a new variant!"
["mhmm..."](
"he's scary! be scared! give us more power!"
["yeah yeah ..."] (
oh fuck, i never made that connection. interesting.
damn, they were at where ?! luckily they literally skipped the n word for the variant from south africa
but ... since when has futurama been around in comic book form?
he also did "disenchanted", where he does the same treatment for fairy tales as he does for science fiction with "futurama" ...
this variant demolishes your basement, he is the king of the school, he drinks your parents' alcohol, he kicks your cat out of our field.
you are probably thinking of unicron:
i don't know if it's a reference to that, but yes it came close to being named "naked":
> a world health organization (who) expert group will meet on 26 november, and will probably label the strain — currently known as b.1.1.529 — as a variant of concern or variant of interest, tulio de oliveira, a bioinformatician at the university of kwazulu-natal, said at the briefing. **the variant will probably be named nu — the next available letter in the greek alphabet naming system for coronavirus variants** — if it is flagged by the who group.
[novembre 2000](
you are welcome my friend.
there are rick and morty comics too, by the way;)
even the french translation is fine.
this pou-pou-pou-filly variant gets your c'hval breeches moving!
am i the only one who lacks empathy, or are there others who have experienced something other than sympathy when they saw this?
i know i shouldn't, but i've never had great sympathy for snowbirds. when you want to absolutely enjoy the sun and spend your money in another country but you have to hurry back to qc within 6 months less a day so as not to lose your sun card. hypocritical.
coming back to the article, especially for the woman who just bought, damn silly you are never at home in a mobile home park.
for those who have been 30 years + i can understand a little, it was not the same reality as today in terms of price, land value, luxury property and mentality.
when she says, it would never be done in quebec, ben if she had done research before buying, she would have seen that several mobile home parks were closed in qc, and the others, it was real tragedies because it is a real home for poor people. she thought you were better protected in a foreign country where she is not a citizen and where it had already happened.
they have said it several times, we are not at home, the lesson: when you are in a foreign country, arrange yourself to be the owner, because otherwise, you are literally nothing and you have no rights.
the owner made it clear what americans think of snowbirds; are not in the street, they have a house in quebec.
people will have to take note of it, because this is what will happen to them all, they will have no mercy to put on the streets of vacationers against millions that the land is worth.
despite the fact that i have very little in common with 'snowbirds', it's really sad to have to experience something like this. it's not just a house in the south for them, it's often a lifelong dream.
the problem is that you lack empathy for another person or group.
this world made her a personal choice. it's their life. what do you think they decide to go and spend the rest of their life in the warmth? nothing pentoute.
there's no law that says you forgot to spend your life here. quebec is not a prison.
it's sad, it was a really nice little corner
the big advantage of the twin lakes was the price, there are plenty of other places in florida where you can buy land with a luxury mobile home, but there it was cheap and family friendly
it is still a risk to take to rent a piece of land and install an old mobile home there, florida or not. it's flat, it's a hit from the owners, but it was still a risk
wow there's some jealousy here. you really have to have a lot of poop on your heart to write so many negative comments on a subject that does not affect you personally.
you don't have to understand them or even approve of what they're doing to feel sad for someone losing their dream.
you're right that it's not safe to do what they're doing by leasing land either here or in florida, but that doesn't make any difference to me. if you don't have a little feeling of 'damn it must be boring to live this' well yes, for me you lack empathy a little.
ps they don't come back after 6 months for the sun card, they come back because they are not allowed to stay more than 6 months in a row in the united states.
you're talking about people who have paid taxes all their lives. are not hypocritical
you lack empathy, but no empathy, if you know what i mean.
> when you want to absolutely enjoy the sun and spend your money in another country but you have to hurry back to qc within 6 months less a day so as not to lose your sun card. hypocritical.
they continue to pay 100% of their taxes in quebec, and have private coverage so they are hardly protected by the public plan during the 6 months in the usa. i see it more as people who save us money.
> am i the only one who lacks empathy
do not.
beautiful hypocrites and cowards, who push each other during the winter ...
fuck the snowbirds (and they're boomers too)!
honestly, if she actually sold that 65million, that's who has no friends, if even family comes second for that kind of amount, imagine for canadians.
i know, it's easy to say after the fact but when the other one was sold in the early 2000s, every other park should have been prepared for that and and the tenants at the time should have tried to buy the land has the gang and do some kind of co-op or whatever.
the land must have been worth 10 times less at the time so at 5-6 million divide by 300+ that's $ 14,000, it was doable for not this scooped up the ass in the water.
but like i say, easy to say now.
a nice little corner? 1000sqft lots surrounded by highways and industrial zones, in addition to being directly in line with the airport runways?
from a point of quality of life (noise, dust, co2, etc ...) i would say that these people will be a winner from there ...
that's why i was asking the question, i was so curious what other people think about it.
yes, it's not the first time i've heard this one. but they paid taxes to contribute to the socialist regime of quebec, for residents of quebec,
you remain québécois whatever you do but when you spend 6 months in another country spending your money there, i'm not convinced that you are still really resident of qc. so do you really have the right to enjoy it at full height like the others who stay here.
👍
this comment sounds jealous more than anything else
it's not bad what i always thought, that you do not like winter, no trouble, move if you want, but move for real, with immigration and worse all like the world who sell everything and who will live in costa rica, in the republic or other because the cost of living is lower. i never had a problem with that, they live their dream and that's their right.
you come back 2-3 times a year to see your grandchildren, and everyone's happy, but the snowbirds want the butter and the butter money.
worse, it's farting in their face.
i would tell you that it's a lot less worse than you think… it looks a lot more like small chalets, with a good community life. the pool is often packed with young people around the holidays, people decorate and talk to each other… i'm not a snowbird, but i spent my holidays renting a mobile home at twin lakes for at least 10 years, and the atmosphere on the pitch was just fabulous
the highway is also further away than you think, my house is closer to a highway than this land, and the sound doesn't carry so much
the airport is close, but you get used to it very quickly, and the sound is not loud enough to bury conversations (far from it)
it was really a little gem for the not rich (although there were some areas where it was clearly very well-off, but it is in the exception)
well for me it's like i said in my first comment, i really don't have anything in common with them and i agree that it's really not safe to do that, but yes i think that it's a slight lack of empathy ... nothing serious, don't worry;)
it must be said that i have too much empathy, sometimes it gets intense for nothing and it's not better.
i want to make sure you didn't take my response as a personal attack, i really just wanted to answer you honestly and provide a little clarification on the 'return after 6 months' (although it's clear they have to. like it always having their health insurance cards). worse honestly, if it was my lifestyle, i would prefer to spend the summer in quebec myself, regardless of the sun card or american law.
i don't understand your problem with this way of life? you are jealous? they are free to do whatever they want.
by cons do not shit us with your estie of mobile homes.
almost all of the world's maple syrup comes from canada ... almost all of the maple syrup produced in canada comes from quebec.
once again, the roc appropriates a quebec feat in a desperate attempt to distinguish itself culturally from the united states ...
desperate times…
>the quebec maple syrup producers is a government-sponsored cartel that controls some 70 percent of the world’s maple syrup supply and is sometimes compared to the organization of the petroleum exporting countries’ grip on oil.
>amid surging demand for syrup as more people cook at home amid the pandemic, the cartel has been forced to tap a whopping 50 million pounds of syrup from its strategic reserve.
>that’s the most the group has released from the reserve in a single season since 2008 and amounts to about half of the entire stockpile.
i opened a bag of maple syrup just to read this
wait ... isn't that beaverton ???
shit got real
like culture.
oops, did you write that to me? oh well.
comment from marde. this is an article from the ny post.
« quebec = bad » - nypost
from quessé… in a bag?
seriously it's kidding this kind of comments, we want to be respected, we accuse the rest of canada of ignorance towards us and of quebec bashing, but at the first opportunity someone has to write a comment like this . you think they have no culture, i can name you a lot of canadian artists who are not quebecers.
marde journalism, happy?
aren't they right?
bought by the gram in the corner of berri-uqam.
it's kind of an energizing thing for when you work out
you get downvoted for that, we can clearly see the great openness of quebecers and how welcoming we are
indeed, and all those you are going to name make american pop music. this is canadian "culture".
let's go. name 5 canadian cultural elements that are not:
* quebecer
* american
* aboriginal
* bri'ish
marde journalism because they do not distinguish quebec enough from canada in the ny post?
i might be a little too alarmist, but i think the roc is going to come up with a problem in a few years. by distorting words like * phobia * or concepts like racism, we come to bewildering confusion.
how do you manage to name what happens when words are meaningless? how can we discuss when only certain groups of people can claim and define subjects such as racism? it is frankly confusing.
... wow ... really ... i'm speechless ...
ps: when will sovereign quebec be?
[meanwhile, in toronto...](
english canada be like:
journalist: yes hello it's to have an interview with a muslim to talk about issues of racism, islamophobia, etc.
moderate muslim: ok
journalist: first of all, are you really a muslim?
moderate muslim: sorry?
journalist: i mean, what do you think of law 21, the muslim brotherhood and all?
moderate muslims: well at home in morocco, policewomen are not allowed to wear the hijab at work and that's fine. i don't see why it would be any different. ah and i never voted for the brothers, luckily the king is there to calm them down.
journalist: we're going to do the interview with someone else after all, you're not muslim enough.
bin let's see tabarnak! i haven't checked all the information in the article but even if it's jdm / jdq, i take it for granted that there is still a certain journalistic rigor. it’s appalling this affair!
we really missed our chance in 95 :(
no, but what a racist rag, this article which denies the beauties of canadian diversity !!!
#/s
the mac is in essence islamist. let no one be fooled.
sometimes we wonder if this kind of group is not just paid to generate social tension. at one point there are damn limits to being rude. the islamophobic courts, the islamophobic calendar, islamophobic secularism, it's all so ridiculous. i cannot believe that muslims can agree with the fact that this organization represents them and claims to defend their interests. you just can't leave your image in the hands of such oddballs as a community.
all the same funny that we talk about islamophobic law when muslim countries like morocco or turkey have or have similar laws. the law was overturned in turkey by erdogan so it kind of shows what pogoa gang that might be against.
when we give such weight to vocal muslims, proselyte limit, to represent the whole community, my first thought goes first to the many moderate muslims that there are here and that we represent less, for fear of passing ironically for racist.
> at the beginning of each video, asma ahmed, the veiled presenter, quotes the koran in arabic: "in the name of allah, the most merciful, the most merciful". the mac engages here in religious proselytism at school with young people who are there to learn and not to be converted to islam. ** such a situation would never be tolerated if it were about the bible and jesus **.
the general rule when a quebecor columnist denounces a supposed double-standard for the benefit of muslims or other minorities is that either the double-standard does not exist, or it does exist but in the opposite direction.
the latter is the case here. the $ 225,000 from the ontario government for these courses on islamophobia is not even a drop in the ocean of taxpayer dollars who are going to fund the [catholic education system] ( // www.ocsta.on.ca/catholic-schools-in-ontario/):
>ocsta represents all of ontario’s 29 english catholic school boards. together these school boards educate over 575,000 students in more than 1500 catholic schools. \[...\]the central focus of catholic education is learning about jesus christ and living in relationship to his teachings. \[...\]ontario’s catholic schools are a distinctive segment of ontario’s vibrant public education system. catholic schools are faith-based schools whose educational purpose is not only the transmission of knowledge; but also, the formation of the whole person in terms of body, mind and spirit. \[...\]
it would be almost impossible for a historian who specializes in canadian constitutional history, like bastien, not to be aware of this. so i'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt and assume bad faith.
(by the way, i would bet a lot of money that bastien himself graduated from the old public catholic education system in quebec. otherwise, from a highly subsidized private catholic school.)
the beginning of the article is fine. for several reasons, this has no place.
however, a difference must be made between muslims and islam. it is true that many or even the majority of canadian muslims do not support islamic extremism. by islamic extremism, i am talking about all the rules aimed at diminishing women and their rights.
where i completely drop out, it is when he begins to make the comparison with quebec. seems that all the reasons are good to go back on the constitution.
the text was written for what purpose, to decry an unacceptable situation in ontario and what the mac is doing where to still play the victims of big bad canada ...
i like how he tries to make us believe that the roc is at the point of turning into a kind of theocracy and that only in quebec we are protected from that thanks to our wonderful law 21
tomorrow! we are having a referendum now!
i vote yes!
why not never?
the odds of coming across a head-to-toe veiled woman are quite high in toronto.
it is above all a question of culture, in north america as we say big corvette petite qué… i tell myself that in islamic culture it is probably the same kind of man who forces their wives to wear the head veil. at the feet.
i lived in the middle east for three years and they called out to prayer at five in the morning every day. no thanks.
wtf!??!
they could at least use bells. we hardly use it anymore.
>as fears mount over the newly identified coronavirus variant omicron, governments around the world are scrambling to protect their citizens from a potential outbreak.
>**israel is banning all foreigners from entering the country in response to omicron fears, authorities announced saturday.**
>**australia has banned the entry of foreigners who have traveled to nine southern african countries in the past 14 days, including south africa, lesotho, botswana, and zimbabwe.**
>**meanwhile, south korea has imposed restrictions on travelers from eight southern african countries, its disease control and prevention agency announced saturday.**
yep, there is little point in blocking travelers from just these 8-9 countries, the variant is surely already made pretty much everywhere in the world.
i think the goal is rather to save time by limiting exposure to the pools of people who are potentially the most infected to study the whole more closely before "getting into the job". the studies should start coming out soon, so we're going to have more information and more on what to do there.
and that scientifically speaking a variant implies greater weakness.
but hey .. anti-science hygienic theater, that will not change.
science? tequilla heneiken, not the time for that.
yeah i understand that, on the other hand as with the previous waves it will surely end in hardening of the rules / travel, but once it will be well propagated by travelers from elsewhere. we know what's coming, they might just block everything now like israel.
this is like the worst of both worlds; you don't have the initial protection by blocking everything, and you have the impact of blocking everything afterwards the same
is walmart bending the law by stating that they will not offer a deferral voucher? it's written at the bottom of the front page of their black friday flyer.
this law is fine. but the best option is to consume less. we buy one or two objects a year and that's happiness! 😀
> and the advertised item is out of stock when you go to the store during the sale period?
does that mean only in store or online store too? seems to me that it's rare to see fixed amounts on deals.
i would add that in certain situations these activities could be illegal at the federal level as well.
for those who would file a complaint with the opc, think about whether it's worth making one with the competition bureau as well.
if let's say it is written, online, "out of stock" but there is still the price displayed (probably following a liquidation sale), does that also apply?
it sometimes happens that i come across the product i'm looking for at a ridiculous price but it is "out of stock" all of the time. it would be a game changer if i could have a good delay in this case.
what has never been clear to me is is there a limit on the amount of vouchers that can be issued to the same person?
like if the butter is on special, can i get coupons for 500 blocks?
wow thank you! i bought an arcteryx coat from mec at 50% and finally they told me it was backorder.
looks like i'll get myself a model of the year at 50% of the price instead.
there could have been eggs on special at the metro on tuesday. was told that they do not make good deferrals for these eggs because they were going to receive them the next day (wednesday).
legal or not?
my interpretation of the law is that if they do not restock the item in question they must give you a similar item of greater value than the advertised price.
the replacement item appears to be the preferred option for the opc and i doubt it will pass if a store attempts to circumvent the objective of the law by giving out zero deferral vouchers.
edict: in fact, the law only mentions the replacement product. the deferred voucher can be used justifying that the customer will get the same item but there must be a replacement eventually. a zero deferred voucher would be contrary to the exemption that the mutual fund gives to traders.
you can't force a company to re-stock
i put my hand in the fire that no one will have his voucher.
black friday, eurk.
amazon for me, anyways i don't find the deals that enticing, have you seen any crazy deals you guys?
pretty sure it's illegal. but if they want to offer another similar product with the same discount, they are entitled.
it's technically not illegal to write this in the flyer, as long as they give them the same if you ask. basically, they rely on customers not asking for it or letting go.
when i worked for them, the managers would say something like "you know it's written in the flyer that we don't have good deferrals for black friday?" they don't say they won't, just that it's written in the flyer. if the customer withdraws their request on their own, that's not their problem. but if the customer insists, they do one anyway, they have no choice.
otherwise, for the really expensive stuff where the discounts sometimes run into the hundreds of dollars like game consoles and tvs, the manager would have us check the stock inventory every day. if in the circular it says "limited quantities" and once in store there is a poster that says "8 in stock today", then they have the right not to give a deferral voucher.
1 roll of pq plus a pair of socks on january 2nd
in store and online.
fun little story: i tried to enforce the law on an online computer screen at best buy, they didn't want to. i call the opc, they say it's my right and i call them back. they don't want to know anything.
i even had to write to the entire best buy board of directors for an administrative officer to contact me and fix it. in short, in store it is easier but legally it is valid online too.
yeah, you got a good delay in that case
why would you want 500 blocks of butter lol
no, just cowardly.
no, but you can force them to give you a good deferral. if you ask if they are doing it nicely, they will say "no" to you (kind of like it happened to my friend today haha).
but if you say "well, since it's not in stock i'll take a good deferral", i think it's a lot more likely to happen.
> you cannot force a company to re-stock
no, but you can force them to issue a deferred voucher. indeed, there is nothing forcing them to put the item in question back on sale at some point, but if they do, then they will have to honor the deferred voucher when you present it at the checkout.
make 3 months that i work every second of my free time to finish my basement to give a bedroom to my 3rd child .... i find this guy there on marketplace and he promises me the moon he speaks well and tells me that it has been drawing joints for 30 years ...
my god horror ... in 5 hours he destroyed my entire gypsum with his macaque technique .... i will have to take almost all the gypsum because there are a lot of things he has done that is just not sandable ....
if you are staying in the quebec region and you need to pull joints, do not under any pierre pouliot pretext. it is announced with this title: cheap price joint shooter without dust for 30 years.
i thought to share this here because it must not happen to someone else ...
my lifetime experience is limited to about ten patched holes of varying sizes and i think i would do a better job than that.
conspiracy: the dude sells sandblasters at the local renot depot.
ben what, spreading the plaster with a slingshot and finishing with a rake isn't that what you have to do ?!
i sympathize and i know it doesn't help you but you reminded me of an old saying
"if you find that a pro who knows all about it costs a lot, imagine the cost of a hobbyist who knows nothing"
unfortunately in your case, the guy was showing off like a pro.
make a complaint to the commission de la construction; you have his ccq number, don't you?<padmé&anakin.jpg> is not it?
that's wonderful! in what context was this work done?
edit: i just saw your post .. it's horrible.
seriously i don't understand how you can do a shit job like that. i've done plaster twice in my life and i'm pretty sure it would be 100x better.
beautiful work, don't work like a pig.
i have ldoua, i am doing some ruff
but the ... he's supposed to come back next week to sand / put on a second coat ... right?
right??
ok but there is nothing for real! i have seen 100 times worse than that end with an impeccable finish… there are those who splash that thick and who are equipped to sand everything, like festool planex or hilti dws 225. leave time to come and do your sanding before to say that you don't know how to work lol
yeah well you weren't lucky. the worst part is you probably don't have much recourse against the guy who is probably without an rbq license and without an accounting system. (coughs coughs moonlighting)
if license complaint to rbq.
if no anonymous tax disclosure license?
what does he say to him? that his job is perfect? who is going to sand again? is it made a ghost?
i am not a construction specialist, but an amateur. i do my renovations at home. personally, according to the photos i saw, a good sandblasting, see with an electric sandblaster, and that will be fixed. ah yes, and a good brush for the dust!
i don't believe that redoing the gypsum is mandatory.
i see that my landlord has come to do some work for you! looking at the photos, it looks like the practice he had in my apartment paid off. on the other hand, i have the impression that it was a little cheap on the plaster. you can still see the gypsum in some places.
doing a shitty job of the same with fiberglass must be done anyway. with paper tape i understand that it can be difficult sometimes when you are experienced but fiberglass tape that sticks to coliss
but is it done or is it just a basecoat like?
before you think of pulling everything off your gypsum because it is impossible to sand by hand, you could try to bring it all right to the orbital sander, plugged into the shop-vac you should not have too much dust (put on a good bag in your sweeper!)
you did well to flag him nsfw, it's actually not safe to give this guy a job, it makes you want to be violent.
do you have any pictures from before?
i believe that all natural resources should be nationalized, no logic in giving that to others.
the problem with that is that profitability depends on the price of the ore. mining projects which were supposed to be profitable and which ultimately are not is relatively common (see stornoway)
either it or sell it to foreign countries. seems the answer is obvious. hydro and dams were also expensive at the time.
lolll. take a look at the latest mining projects (including a surprise surprise for lithium) in which quebec has invested directly. the mining industry is very risky and expensive, it lends itself very badly to nationalization. for every correct example there are 100 horror stories.
the royalty models i find it a winner. we exchange risk for a steady income. in the same way that if you have a big family and bonds, you will perhaps not play all your cash in super risky investments ... you will exchange this potential upside for a guarantee of less downside and you will take a paid job.
not necessarily; increasing royalties and taxes will allow us to profit without assuming the risk.
why lithium but not other metals or water
if it was just me, absolutely all natural resources would be nationalized.
it is almost impossible to make any real profits in the mining industry in canada.
for those who do not know the industry, it is still quite easy to consider an equivalent to hydro quebec or oil in norway, but in reality we will only lose money.
watch the performance of quebec investment in mining in the province. almost all losers.
the mining industry is a black hole for the capital. we could spend our money a lot better.
no! because it is much more efficient to let the private sector take the risk and take care of it, then to tax them on our taken resources.
do not
from what i understand, canada is the tax haven not to be ignored by mining companies. i imagine that the nationalization of part of this industry could upset some chessboards ... i know absolutely nothing about it, but i have the feeling that we could write a thesis on the subject.
i would be curious to read the summary.
nemaska lithium has been taken over by the government.
not badly sure that it would collectively be more profitable to develop / nationalize the secondary and tertiary lithium transformation sector rather and to leave the extraction itself to the private sector.
there is immense potential with the "imminent" electric shift in the automotive sector, and transformed lithium is not a particularly economical commodity to be transported over long distances in large quantities.
we will never be able to compete with the cost of labor from third world countries working in the extractive sector, but i imagine that we can become a supplier strategically positioned to be competitive for the major automobile manufacturers in the world. north america and the "utilities" which invest in accumulators to manage their electricity production more efficiently.
yes.
no, we already burned ourselves with the northern plan
but yes!
from: any normal resident of quebec.
do it and then make you reproach yourself until the end of your days by all the ti-jos who know that state companies are shit.
do we have lithium here in canada? i did not know. we should nationalize it, of course. but there are always "experts" with good reasons for privatizing. i am not an optimist.
all natural resources should be nationalized
yes but… it's super risky. not sure we have the money for that risk. the right model for us is royalties, i think.
rush b.
cyka blyat
this is a known problem when you are using windows in a program that does not support utf-8 encoding.
for example, é and й have the same value in hexadecimal.
the original text must have been received from the translator in windows 1252, which the software interpreted as windows 1251, because in ascii there is no real way to determine the raw encoding.
git gud
it's really unheard of for me. i assumed that it was a russian who printed the packaging of the toy since i have never seen this kind of error on a canadian product.
> a canadian product
doubt.exe
toy made in china, found at toys r us. certified 100% canadian
i don't know if you're sarcastic or just incredibly naive .. lol
you're not the first to point it out to me anyway
sure, but that was to be expected.
look at the spanish flu, pretty much the same patterns.
there are still 2 years left.
perseus 8
at least it's not omega
the virus will continue to mutate as long as people continue to be infected! get vaccinated :)
you're going to be 3.14 times more bored for the next one.
the rich countries have made the choice of a selfish third dose rather than addressing the more relevant choice of having more countries globally vaccinated two doses as was recommended by experts and that's what it gives, a super contagious super mutant variant from a country not sufficiently vaccinated two doses.
it sounds like a villain's name in marvel.
surely after the 14th dose we should be correct
21 years old, no money but managed to buy / take credit for a building at 600k. hmm.
he's sure he had someone behind
🤔 money laundering 🤔
she or she sucked the right dude
maybe
legend has it that he would still be in business if the wages looked good.
the omicron variant (that's the name officially given not even an hour ago) is already in europe and asia. banning flights from south africa is insufficient. it's like at the start of the pandemic when they blocked travel from wuhan, it was already elsewhere in china, iran, italy, egypt, etc.
they will never learn.
> he says “with all my heart” that he can allow all the families to come together for christmas.
do you seriously think we're going to wait for his permission?
it will be like my colleague who returned from morocco with the c19. when the country was on the canadian entry ban list.
morocco> usa> passenger bus> quebec.
those who want to enter will enter. blocking a particular country gives nothing. you block everything and you stay / isolate those who absolutely must enter.
it is no longer a question of banning flights from south africa when some countries (brazil) are already declaring that they will not impose restrictions. so you can already count the lists with more origins.
no, it's racist to do that. - trudeau surely.
travelers do not have to be tested / vaccinated to return to canada?
he probably read [my comment] ( on the case count thread.
sacred francis!
are there direct flights from south africa to canada? maybe in toronto?
i expect this to be another false alarm, what is the odds that it is actually worse than the delta in a predominantly vaccinated population?
28 years challenge against covid-21 ...
why don't we wait to see the death rate of the new variant before panicking? it may well be more transmissible, but if it is less dangerous than the earlier variants, why bother?
it'll be like the wuhan og, too little too late. the variant has probably been around for a long time, we just hadn't identified it until now.
during this time, we have 1000 cases per day because of the bars that are still open!
5e vague here we go!
it should be closed everywhere again the flights.
i'll always be late to do anything. too bad because it is a waste of time.
it's an endless loop, after omicron sa will be another endless variant. we have the choice to live with the virus or to confine-deconfin and all the health measures that come with it. the choice to be made is easy, however.
> the omicron variant (this is the name officially given not even an hour ago)
he calls himself nu too.
> it's like at the start of the pandemic when they blocked travel from wuhan, it was already elsewhere in china, iran, italy, egypt, etc.
>  
> they will never learn.
we have a reactive government rather than a proactive one. that's what it looks like ...
> they will never learn.
[they learned, but stopping the flight would cost the economy way too much] (
what would you want? that we close everything and refine it? because if he's already in europe, he's most likely already here
afterwards, we are the ones who suffer the consequences and punishments.
ja rule, what do you think?
it must be because i bought 3 t shirts and a hoodie
where's ja rule !?
a dwarf is wearing what.
a small idiot? a dwarf-becile
he's still a man of letters.
dad?!
a dwarf ass-sucker, i don't know why your joke brought this memory back to my head!
a dwarfector
he has a line that troubles me a bit, it concerns professional orders, studying to be an engineer, that touches me a little. if the law is adopted, not mastering french throughout one's career will become an act "undermining the honor and dignity of the profession" in the same way as corruption, collusion or acts of a sexual nature. . i find it a bit far-fetched to put the ignorance of french on the same level as his actions there.
as for the debate on the obligation to attend a francophone cegep, i find that at post-secondary level it is taking action against a phenomenon without trying to understand why the phenomenon exists in the first place.
for the rest of the act, i'm not sure what's inside, so i don't know.
against that it is not reinforced at cegep. this law is bluff which applies a bandaid on a wound which requires points of support.
i would rather they let it happen and others who were smarter and more competent would take on this very important work.
you can see, just by reading r / quebec, that there are serious problems with the quality of the french language. basically, these are francophones who have gone to school in french and who speak french at home. it makes no sense to blame anglophones and allophones for our own problems. what i see is that over the past 20 years, the quality of french among anglophones and allophones has greatly improved, while among francophones, it has deteriorated. i believe that when it comes to this bill, it is a distraction that hides the real problem.
badly granting a verb is like banging a girl's ass at the office, you didn't know
.... up to the special law!
how many days do we give ourselves before this happens?
the educators want to give a "greek gift" to the government. if they succeeded in increasing the wages of the other "support" employment groups, the government would shop around for legal challenges by the other unions which contain these same employment groups and which have already signed their collective agreements.
under the pay equity act, all equal work must have equal pay. a cpe support worker should be paid the same salary as an equivalent support worker elsewhere in the public service. in the end, it would end up costing the government much more.
the government will never open this pandora's box. we are heading straight for a special law.
lets go!!
i wouldn't say no to a 17% increase ...
i will be satisfied with the usual 2% and confine to working 5 days / week
still taking the population hostage. i understand that we have to do what but it is not in this way. the majority of my colleagues have taken 6 days off in the past two months. who will pay for them?
not even need a special law, with the state of emergency the government can do it by simple ministerial declaration.
it's cute special laws until the staff just quit.
the caq conducts by survey and currently the population is behind the cpes. they're not going to take that risk.
they are going to act as for our nurses, they will print more money and solve the problem as quickly as possible so that it does not splash their next campaign.
the government will continue negotiations until december. after that, the unions will influence the gas, and the government will make a special law.
zero?
except that several job groups were on the same salary scale as educators, and suddenly they are no longer. it will never pass.
when your profession has been neglected for years because it is a traditionally female job, at some point you need to catch up.
the main grievance of the unions is that the government refuses to increase the other employment groups of the cpes.
it is the 9% to those of the household and kitchen which seems to hang
i would still take 9% hrhe
> i understand that you have to do what, but it's not that way.
so what do you suggest? by dint of saying "defend yourself but not like that" there will not be much to do. and recall that it is normal that going on strike inconveniences the bosses. for public services, the bosses are us. if you're not happy, we should talk to our employees responsible for administering the thing for us: the government.
it's pissing, really pissing off but we deal with it as the educators have had the dealer with cinditions of mard for 10 years ....
but what a stooge mentality.
the people who take care of your children shouldn't have the right to strike ... because some people are too cowardly to deal with it?
by its nature, a strike creates inconvenience.
without this, union members have very little means to put pressure on their employer.
do you prefer that a quarter of the provincial staff resign and that we increase the number of service breakdowns?
because the alternative is pretty good.
$ 25.40 per hour max echelon in cpe. $ 23 per hour as a bilingual insurance agent at promutuel in underwear with a laptop, a virtual ip phone and a joint on a job.
the choice is easy.
as a good frenchman i never understood the concept of the special law against the right to strike. our educators are clearly underpaid, but if they go on strike indefinitely then special law. will it take a movement from everyone at the red square to help them?
well, afghanistan is now almost completely under taliban control and they are fighting with isis and a few rebels .. i believe that adopting will be difficult if not impossible for a long time (except maybe for the case of the refugees who have already made it). get out)
answer i put in the montreal reddit:
i think there are a lot of underprivileged young people in life (racialized or not) who have never left the city to go into nature or to do outdoor activities.
going to hang out in an urban park at night, it's not the same thing
they never spent a night outdoors, saw "wild" animals or even farm animals.
just offering the possibility of offering that to our young people is a good idea.
when i was younger, i had the chance to go to a subsidized summer camp for young people like that; i really had a hard time. (camp marcel in lanaudière)
> psychological obstacles are less visible, but just as important. several members of racialized communities feel uneasy, if not outright fear, when the time comes to visit an outdoor space frequented overwhelmingly by whites.
> when you are a group of black people and you go to the park to relax and have a picnic, you are always afraid that someone will call the police. jacqueline scott
> it makes it easier if, for example, i don't know how to pitch a tent and someone who looks like me helps me, she says. such a person will just think: “this is someone who doesn't have a lot of camping experience”. whereas if it's a white person, she might think something like “oh, these people don't know what to do in the woods”. it is not the same message.
> a simple question of vocabulary can help cultural communities to better tame the outdoors. the very concept of the outdoors is not always obvious to many of them. catherine lefebvre thus suggests changing “outdoor activities” to “outdoor activities”, and “hiking” to “forest walking”.
> we were so tired of being confined indoors that many people started exploring the nature that was literally across the street, says jacqueline scott. many black people did not know that such spaces existed near their homes.
it is donations ben wtf as an article. i have the impression of seeing an article which infantilizes blacks to the highest level and which has a contempt for uninhibiting white people. it's uncomfortable i find.
mdr, i admit that i had not "la presse becomes the spiritual successor of safarir" in my predictions for 2021
i find it a bit wtf.
it is especially these tips there:
>  
the psychological barriers are less visible, but just as important. several members of racialized communities feel uneasy, if not outright fear, when the time comes to visit an outdoor space frequented overwhelmingly by whites.
it is of the psychological order this end there, because i am sure the world one has nothing to hang out of the color of skin in forest, because these for the nature that it is there.
> when you are a group of black people and you go to the park to relax and have a picnic, you are always afraid that someone will call the police.
i have doubts.
> a simple question of vocabulary can help cultural communities to better tame the outdoors. the very concept of the outdoors is not always obvious to many of them. catherine lefebvre thus suggests changing “outdoor activities” to “outdoor activities”, and “hiking” to “forest walking”.
i have the impression that she hangs them for idiots in the community.
> "we were so tired of being confined indoors that a lot of people started exploring the nature that was literally across the street," says jacqueline scott. many black people did not know that such spaces existed near their homes. "
they just look across the street and walk for a minute while laughing. it's hard to believe that according to her no one thinks of going on google map and looking at the parks around them, it's like the first thing i did when i arrived in montreal.
university of toronto ...
pcq the general translation of this position is “i support the principles of the left (in theory) but do not ask me to pay (more taxes) for social services or support programs for marginalized people”.
being socially on the left but economically on the right means that the person is generally pro lgbt, pro choice, pro legalization of the pot, etc. but fiscally conservative.
the people who say that are usually not as socially left as they think they are.
replaces "socially" by "identity" (understand: identity policies) and "economically" by "fiscally" (understand: state budget management). basically, it remains rooted in capitalism and considers any societal problem from an individual perspective in its resolution.
banal example: apple and facebook who are pro-lgbt and pro-blm.
it is indeed a contradiction. here is a little breakdown of someone who thought of themselves as center / socially left, economically right before i realized this is absolutely ridiculous as a political position.
to be socially on the left generally is to support marginalized people and to support the fight against climate change. but we agree that to solve the problems of our society, it costs money, the money that we will collect through taxes. worse, generally, to be economically right is to limit spending on social services and limit tax increases.
so in the end, it's a completely empty position that means nothing and helps no one.
"i want the government to pay for everything, but i don't want to pay taxes"
i suppose it could mean economically on the right (small government, free market, etc.) but without all the racism, sexism, genderism, etc. that often accompanies the american right.
for me, that means:
“i know that groups are marginalized and that we need to take measures to strengthen the social safety net, but that does not matter enough to me to invest in it. "
i also see it as a red flag.
socially on the left and economically on the right its not working ...
it's like saying: i want everything for free and don't want to pay tax
it strangely reminds me of the countryside by philippe couillard. they were so socially left that they worked very hard to get the poor out of hospitals ...
it is in quotes to laugh at people who take this position.
that means his heart is on the left and his wallet on the right.
it's simple, if you are on the social left, you want to reduce inequalities, better finance public services, fight against climate change, promote workers' rights, etc.
if you are on the right economically, you are going to want to minimize public spending and let the free market decide the allocation of resources, which in general increases inequalities, reduces the funding and efficiency of public services, increases the intensity. ghg emissions and reduces workers' rights, etc.
so it's pretty obvious that if you advocate right-wing economic policies, your social left ideas are impossible to implement, by definition. reduce the size of the state and increase the size of the state at the same time? strengthen regulations and eliminate regulations at the same time? being a trade unionist but pro-boss at the same time? support ethnic, sexual, socio-economic minorities but eliminate the social net that supports them?
these two political positions are irreparably opposed and mutually exclusive. it's a red flag because it can't be. an intelligent and knowledgeable person will immediately realize that you cannot separate the social and the economic.
a right-wing individual who calls himself a 'social' left is probably simply tolerant of sexual, ethnic, etc. minorities in the sense that he grants them the right to exist but he will not be in favor of giving them the means to do so. 'flourish. he's a libertarian: you do what you want as long as i can maximize my income. in the end, it's simply individualism, it's not the "social left".
usually people who say that is a red flag and yes we should probably laugh at them.
but in a more philosophical sense, i would say (unlike some in this thread) that this is a possible ideological position and one that logically holds (although it makes me nauseous personally).
i think this position manifests itself particularly strongly in the hyperindividualist _elite capture_ of identity principles of social justice, often associated with the adjective woke. i recommend [especially this video] ( to understand what i'm talking about. one example that is given is the cia ad where a latino lgbt employee claims to be proud of her identity (which is hilarious with contradictions).
i'm more offended by the jab in the world running on the trail.
the left does not start opposing capitalism, one way or another. to be on the right economically means to support capitalism and neoliberalism.
social problems are closely linked to economic issues. one can well, for example, support the causes of blacks in north america, but if one supports the economic system which keeps them in poverty and causes or intensifies all the other social problems, there is an obvious contradiction. it is this liberal hypocrisy that the left rejects.
we must not confuse societal issues (what we have the right to do):
- sexuality (lgbtq, pma, marriage for all, adoption for lgbtq couples ...)
- drug policy (legalization of cannabis, non-repressive policy and care for drug users, etc.)
- education and inclusive culture of diversity
and social policies (how the state redistributes taxes):
- unemployment benefits
- social well-being
- maternity / paternity / parenthood leave
- health / education policy (salary of teachers / caregivers / expenditure per patient / pupil / student)
- labor law and trade unions
in addition, someone has already claimed to be "socially left and economically right" jean-marie le pen.
it is a classic theme of the authoritarian right and the far right and it does not mean much in terms of political coherence.
i love trail running, i personally feel like i'm attacking!
i want to see the manager ...
among the americans (on reddit at least) it meant the "brogressives" as we called them
people who, to caricature, wanted to smoke legal weed but not that we increase their taxes or legislate their uber
think of montreal / toronto douchebags who say they are feminist for the sake of dating but are not that are not for two cents.
here it would designate urban people who vote liberal in the provinces without class solidarity, i would say. unless i'm mistaken, there aren't any in quebec. we have the ultra-dominant economic and social right (the caq) and a fairly strong (albeit weak) representation of the economic and social left (qs) in montreal. maybe they are more present in the mile end?
"i vote qs, i have never had a job and i live with my parents in a mansion in boucherville" 🚩🚩🚩
it is a centrist position which is in itself very laughable. there's the / r / enlightenedcentrism subreddit to laugh at them.
the strong points of the central position: the 2 sides are bad, those who want social justice are extremists; neo-nazis are extremists. also: can't we just get along and make a compromise? a compromise between "i want to be treated like a human" and "the white race is superior" is likely to be difficult to achieve. also a big hit from centrism: i don't support the nazis but violence against the nazis is bad and i will defend them from their right to be racist. it is their opinion and they are entitled!
on march 12, 2020, i was sitting at my desk programming, between two things i saw that the nba had closed the day before, that the nhl suspended its season, the government decided to close schools and my cubicle neighbor looks at me and says "dude, take your laptop, just in case!"
excellent decision because since then i have not set foot in the office. anyway, that's where i hit on that life was going to be weird for a couple of ~~ days, uh i mean weeks ~~ ... years.
when china quarantined all of wuhan.
march 13, 2020.
according to my emails: january 10th i was telling my colleagues that it was crazy in china that they were therefore authoritarian. february 14-15, i write to them that it is spreading in europe and that it would be boring if it came back here after spring break (i work in a university).
on march 3, i sent an urgent caps lock email to the safety / health department to tell them that our computer labs had not been washed and disinfected for years (budget cut), that we already had case statistics colds and flu which increase in our staff with each return from spring break and that our labs should simply be closed until a disinfection strategy is put in place.
on march 9 i sent emails to the management, the rector and the ombudsman because the security department had not yet answered me and the classes were full of students returning from traveling abroad. . my boss was supposed to stay in quarantine after his vacation in italy of all places still showed up and almost insisted on taking everyone's hand.
the university took it easy and crashed the entire university shut down three days later after the government decided for it and the damage had already been done.
i work for a big multi-national, in security. the group i am in was responsible for the pandemic plan - i was not directly involved but had access to weekly data.
around january 2020, a colleague from ontario showed up in montreal. i ask him why, he says they are reviewing the pandemic plan - something that 99.9% of people were completely fooled about on this date. he didn't think it was going to get out of hand, but hey, we were still talking about it in the papers, so the timing was right to reopen the case ...
towards the end of february i had meetings with european colleagues, they didn't seem very motivated and i didn't quite understand why. they told me that covid was becoming more and more important in europe, but even then i more or less believed it. they were a few days - a week at most ahead of us.
at the start of march the internal conclusion was now that the pandemic was pretty much inevitable. my parents were in mexico, i had to communicate with them to explain the situation to them. it was not easy, i was convinced then but i had my nose in it, less obvious for people on vacation.
in montreal we started to make jokes about it, when was the company going to ask us to go back to work at home, as our european colleagues were already doing? i remember on wednesday, my neighbor at the office said "in a month", i thought "in two weeks".
the same evening i decide not to go back to the office on thursday. i'm writing to my boss to tell him. i'm going to do my grocery shopping, "just in case."
friday trudeau closed the borders and recommended all canadians to return to the fold.
so, to answer the question: we saw it coming as a sacrament, but even we who had our face in it, and access to plenty of information and specialists, we had a hard time believing it. it got out of hand very quickly.
on april 15, 2020, when my mother died in one of the 3 chslds considered "hot zone" on the island of montreal (lachine). no way to go see her when they told us that she was potentially infected. two days later she was dead.
it hit me like a brick in the face.
when it got out of hand in italy. when it was '' fair '' in china it seems like i had the thought (racist i admit) of '' yeah but the chinese ... ''. i thought it was going to be like sars and not really more than that.
but when it started to drop like flies in italy, ouch.
january 4, 2020 when i saw on r / chinaflu of communist chinese welding steel bars on apartment block doors in wuhan.
when the company i work for stopped production and took action on prevention.
when i pulled out from the depths of my closet a mask that i had used to go to china. i wore it to the grocery store. everyone looked at me like an alien. it was early april 2020.
around the end of january 2020 ... i saw on reddit the videos of china that were putting up doors, confining en masse, and that despite their extreme efforts the virus continued to spread. at that time i was convinced that the virus was going to become a pandemic but no one believed me ...
friday march 13, 2020. we were supposed to go to a sugar shack at the job and i was one of those doing a lift. when i said i wouldn't go, my co-drivers (?) called me fearful etc.
[deleted]
i'm a customs officer… when i had to start asking questions about the covid and getting a cough in my face at the same time i knew it would end badly.
but more exactly in january 2020 when many of my colleagues fell ill one after another from a flu “like i never had” in their words, which i then caught.
on march 12, 2020, i was in science class and a student asked our teacher if it was possible for the school to close because of covid-19, he said that in 20 years of career he has never seen that and it's impossible for that to happen. the next day the government says the year is canceled lol.
right from the start in china, quite frankly, it was pretty straightforward to do with the course of things. despite their attempts to hide it all, it was pretty straightforward to take with the fact that they were trying to hide it.
it was quite present on 9gag (while i was there) and i clearly saw it appear in the threads and comments.
in short, november-december.
long before it went to quebec, i knew that the sale of masks was going to be profitable, i also knew it for the purell and the cleaning products, when i saw it in china i said to myself, check bin, that is coming, not in a negative way but with simple evidence, and its been getting worse and worse when i saw that we did not even close our airports or at least control access from the start, it is a real farce.
i was in japan at the end of 2019 at the beginning of 2020. i worked in a tourist restaurant there and in january not a cat in the dining room. i was due to renew my visa for another 6 months and to change my plane ticket from february to august. but ticket prices were skyrocketing but i blamed the olympics. my ticket had cost me $ 500 and there it was almost 3000, so i would have had to pay 2500 difference .... so i came back in mid february and visited my grandmother and my beautiful grandmother. with hindsight it could have ended very badly.
i had found a job in a shop in old quebec, it was cool i could practice my foreign languages, but not often because there were abnormally few customers ... and i lost my job around from march 15 when everything closed.
so i would say march 15 when i was listening to trudeau on the radio with my boss to find out if we were staying open.
fortunately i still had masks because i needed them when i had a cold in japan in november.
in february 2020, i saw emails passing to say that our colleagues were not allowed to make business trips to china until further notice.
then it was italy and a few other countries.
rendered in march it was made no business trips down the line. on march 12, 2020, i took my laptop from my job because we are forecasting a snowstorm and the confinement began the next day. i have started returning to the office more frequently than since this summer.
i have a really wacky "nostalgia" for the start of the pandemic. i'm not sure how to explain it. there was like a unifying, empathetic spirit across the entire planet. like "we're all in it together, we're gonna make it!" with arc-en-ciel and positive memes on arruda.
yeah, it didn't last very long. (the spirit of solidarity, not the pandemic)
i lit on march 12, 2020 when trump closed entry into the us to european travelers. i was on my sofa, i couldn't believe it. i had traveled in the previous weeks and remember being a lot more careful, but it was not alarming to me yet.
worse on march 13, well i fell on my ass like everyone else. i remember having canceled an appointment that day pcq i did not want to take the metro. my boyfriend was told he was teleworking and told me "i promise you that we won't go back to the office for a year" and i didn't believe him lol
when my girlfriend self-deported to her country of origin without saying goodbye to me and ghosted me. hard times xd
good. it feels good to see results.
without vaccines, ancient homosapiens could never have survived until now.
we have known for a long time that the natural immunity of covid is not bad luck.
i just see your thumb.
"reading precautions on the side panel"
always pay attention and take precautions when preparing to read.
r/trouduction
this is for the filming of spider man.
does nashua send his damn bottles to france? is it only in quebec that we are laughing our heads off? i'm not paranoid but that wouldn't surprise me. as if quebec were a linguistic garbage can.
we used the translation we found on altavista.
it is true that it is weird lol, i just watched in real life and it really does not look fat like in the photo i do not understand.
do not forget to put on your glasses ...
lol ça m'a rappelé ce [thread là](
lol same.
i listened to this every day over time! they made strawberry chewing gum with number # too; a great classic i find.
one, dip the fries in oil
two, cook them, it's easy
three, add the sauce and cheese "squish squish"
in your stomach wonderful sensations
one, dip the fries in oil
two, cook them, it's easy
three, add the sauce and cheese "squish squish"
in your stomach wonderful sensations
oh oh oh yes it's us here
gabbo here, poutine here
oh yes, our plates are full
cheese, potatoes, sauce, are things that love each other
hamburger also for me, please
my mouth is so full that i leave you alone
there's steak here big like in the flinstones
the tummies are so full that some fall
(yep, yep)
serve me a hot poutine
it's hot pizza
but no vulgar piece of meat, i want a classic
nothing else
out of the club, i only think about putting on one thing
in my mouth
a girl who makes me taste poutine with a ladle
well torn, that's what i like, you have to mop it all up
lady, once full, i can take care of your case
after the party, you go to la banquise to have something to eat
a hot poutine is what you need to warm up
jump in the air
omnikrom, ttc jump in the air to warm you up
beer, poutine, fleece sweater to warm you up
and everyone from montreal to paris
dance the poutine
if it's not going well in your life
dance the poutine
you will forget all your worries
dance the poutine
dance the poutine
dance, dance the poutine
and everyone from montreal to paris
dance the poutine
like fred astaire in the rain
dance the poutine
from rachel to st-denis
dance the poutine
dance the poutine
dance, dance the poutine
ttc, omnikrom bring back your most beautiful girlfriends
let me see your poutine as it drips
i like to dip with the best fries
today is the party, another new hit
it's at five in the morning that she tastes better
his cheese is melted, we reach the end
baby, move your ball on the fast food table
we arrive at the hotel and you're super flexible
soft (yep), soft (yep), soft (yep), soft
we are together as a family, all ready to eat this poutine
omnikrom, ttc, it's fatty, it's good, it's like poutine
healthy things are not my fingers for me, i want to lick them
pretty, well-nourished lady, look at that beautiful butt
go ahead, flap your chicken wings, i'm watching while i feed myself
i want to see you lick your lips, show me how much
you're dying
if you do it right, i'll let you lick it all off when i'm done
the most beautiful woman, a good poutine, too much banana, straight to bed
one, dip the fries in oil
two, cook them, it's easy
three, add the sauce and cheese "squish squish"
in your stomach wonderful sensations
one, dip the fries in oil
two, cook them, it's easy
three, add the sauce and cheese "squish squish"
in your stomach wonderful sensations
and everyone from montreal to paris
dance the poutine
if it's not going well in your life
dance the poutine
you will forget all your worries
dance the poutine
dance the poutine
dance, dance the poutine
and everyone from montreal to paris
dance the poutine
from quebec to chicoutimi
dance the poutine
from trois-rivières to granby
dance the poutine
dance the poutine
dance, dance the poutine
i exactly thought of this group when i read the variant name! oh god, i still remember when it was happening at musiqueplus ...!
omnikrom its the best band that has ever existed man !!! its gods!
confine my tabarnak ears
i'm still listening to 24 frozen inches. it bounces the big one!
bizarre ! lol
omnikrom is the definition of music that ages badly. i was really tripping over time, but 1/2 years later, it was outdated and has-been.
it's the only song that i really remember from omnikron, and while typing it in youtube i realized that it's just a featuring! 😂 the great era of rap-electro fluo.
number # ... i heard [j'aime la bourgeoisie] ( recently, it must have been 10 years!
quite a classic, with ttc!
time flies eh. we now have white hair, back problems and we start all our sentences with "in my time ..." 🥲
ta fokin raizon
speak for yourself, i still find it good.
it must be said that the video went very, very, very often to musiqueplus. it marked the spirits.
i still have omnikrom in some playlists, it's not `` bad '' but sincerely, if you find that this musical style there and this kind of song lyrics has aged well and that it is still up to date , i really don't understand you.
is that i had the misery with the world like you who judges the tastes of others ... you have the right to not like it, stop pissing off others with it.
listen to this if you like, i listen to it sometimes too.
but sti, do you have the right to have your own opinion of coudouc music, or is it too sensitive as a subject, so shouldn't we talk about it to break the hearts of some fans who have a fragile musical ego?
there is a way to put it. you can say that you don't like it that much anymore or that it has aged badly, there is no problem. but passing judgment on the people who still like it is the line not to cross.
the woke side made it look awfully old ... but there, they made a good beat.
the cession of canada was made with the guarantee that the inhabitants would not be disturbed in the enjoyment of their property. moreover, vattel reports that the practice of international law is to leave the inhabitants alone and even to leave them their private law. the canadians, unlike the acadians, were loyal and did not threaten to rise up. the military and imperial authorities hated what was done in acadia. there were also between 60,000 and 100,000 people ... in short, it is deportation which is the exception, not what happened in canada.
ben coudonc. the reviews are reasonable and not hostile.
translation: "why didn't britain deport francophones from quebec / french-canadian territory in a manner similar to what they did with the acadians?"
bump.
good question.
more or less, britain did not have the will or the manpower to carry it out. wasn’t worth the effort and may not have been doable anyway
did the acadians do what to be deported?
this history course was brought to you by r / quebec.
acadia was conquered and ceded to the english in 1713, about fifty years before new france. from that moment on the acadians always said that they would remain neutral and not officially join great britain. over the years, the english and the french quietly prepare for what is to come ... in 1755, a year before the seven years' war, the english asked the acadians to take the oath of allegiance once again, what they refuse. the decision was then taken to deport them given their risk of rebelling and joining the french if there was a war. so it was a good way to grab land ...
thank you 🙏
we must also understand the role of religion, the acadians being catholics, by pledging allegiance, it was becoming protestant.
hooo
we learn
thank you
> lia player plays her joke.
> he had a visit from his cousin saon.
> he was cute with his tie and skirt.
> the first who found the number calls the plumber.
kill me, someone.
"lia player is doing her joke"
is this satire?
* instead of listeners, you can use the audience. *
* instead of male or female, you can use person. *
* instead of ladies or gentlemen, you can use people. *
* instead of father or mother, you can use parent *
yeh, do this to me while you wait to learn, if you don't mind.
what's wrong with epicene writing? i use it mainly in all my writing, it forces me to enrich my vocabulary and avoid lazy detours.
we must collectively pull ourselves together.
> male: from
> feminine: from
> neutral: do or de lo
> inclusive: di or de li
vigneault: tam ti de lam
toustes lmao.
do not.
yeah, no ...
uh? ..... no.
pwahahahaha
imagine teaching this to young people who have difficulty discerning "his" and "that".
the first two make me think i have a stroke. wtf
it really took me too long to understand what i was reading.
so if i understand correctly: write in normal french, but at the end of every other word, varge on the keyboard.
> he was cute with his tie and skirt.
cravupe?
> kill me, someone.
kill me, somebody.
i spent close to do an acv to read this
sufficiently advanced radicalism is indistinguishable from satire. this is true for wokism as well as for trumpism.
> instead of male or female, you can use ** person **.
"bell", are you getting better?
there is a screeching of the margin in the epicene writing to which i am used and the filth that i have just read.
no deaths, hospitalizations still low (despite the increase in cases observed in recent weeks) and the vaccination rate which is rising more and more.
we may have a lot of cases, but there is currently no significant impact on the rest.
nothing to get excited about, then.
hospitalizations: -4 and -2 for is
more than 1000 cases? i just made myself $ 10 .... allooooo black friday !!!!!!!! 😎
do we know the vaccination status of the infected?
4th wave and a half?
damn, we blew it over.
anyway, when do the passports go?
yeh ... that looks average for the holidays ...
the numbers are rising! it's boring!
here is my contribution to the daily covid raw numbers post.
looking at the progression of cases in south africa. if it goes back to north america we're screwed
confinement for christmas, curfew back. 1037 cases is huge !! a chance that legault is there and maintains the health emergency. we are still too far from case 0.
given there 14 days and after that we will judge.
this comment is not going to age well. ! remindme 1 month
we can thank the vaccine for doing its job.
i agree with you.
the only element that would confuse the issue: the new south african variant. it's something (i'm not the only one worried, you just have to look at the stock markets today). several countries have canceled flights from af. south, but not canada, of course.
a good part of the new cases are minors not yet vaccinated (around 5-11 years old).
your little there. the 4th never ended.
neverblol
it would be 15,000 cases per day without a passport !! @ !!
i don't know anyone who will respect new measures. but like, really nobody.
our politicians see this kind of stuff and instead of tackling clandestine manufacturing and arms trafficking, they will continue to ban legal guns from honest citizens who comply with all requirements and laws on transport and storage. . 🤔
i'm really surprised that guns from 3d printers aren't more prevalent than that inside organized crime. the technology was already impressive in 2013.
"a home-made weapon for launching small shells"
there is no detail of what it is exactly, but when we talk about shells normally it goes beyond the firearm category and falls under the artillery category. hope this is just a misleading description because if the criminal groups start shooting at each other with cannons, it will do a lot more damage than the recent shootings.
well centaure that's it, but you're just dealing with the consequences. all the studies / experts on the subject conclude that you must tackle the socioeconomic causes to stem armed violence but programs for disadvantaged communities and young people at risk are less flashy at a press conference so as we have seen in the last announcement of the caq, it is relegated to the bottom of the list of measures.
worse, the "pro-guns" often drink the economic coolaid of the right, so they don't help each other very much.
edict: worse, meanwhile, anti-gun groups are too blinded by their hatred of guns to come up with measures that would actually help them achieve their goal so it's lose / lose / lose.
with the democratization of "desktop" technologies such as "milling machine", "lathe" and obviously 3d printers. it's starting to be easy to make all kinds of things at home in a discreet fashion.
it just lacks the skills to an individual and it would be possible to do some quality things and "batché" reproduction.
some kind of grenade launcher maybe?
i have no idea where you would find "small shells" on the other hand!
there is a big nuance between “pro-gun” in canada and “pro-gun” in the states. here it is not bad all the time in the world who practices hunting.
i have to drink the coolaid on the right because there is no progun political party on the left. i would like to vote bloc or vert but i can't, they want to put me in jail.
now that the caq has become anti-gun, all that's left is the crazy right wing, i don't know what to do, they are too stupid for me.
indeed, good points.
yep, i'm machinist channels on youtube and you have some who are magicians osti. luckily they are just making patents for kids in their garage for fun because if they had bad ideas not much would prove to be bad.
yeah, you have sports shooters and you don't want to, don't want to, american culture influences a bit but it's really not as bad as much on the side of the followers as of the social problems that we are experiencing. it is sure that the followers are enthusiastic but they do not have as much "rage" in my experience.
source: hunter who will shoot from time to time.
being on the left also annoys me, but i don't see myself in practically any right-wing politics, so there is no choice.
will trudeau cancel flights to and from the uk? as well as belgium?
> two cases of contamination with the new omicron variant of the coronavirus have been detected in the united kingdom in people "linked to a trip to south africa", the british department of health announced on saturday.
oh no, a variant quickly quickly new topic of the hour. cancel me any pi that hurry. quickly put on your double mask outside when you take your steps
the variant is probably already everywhere at this point. i have my osti of cass
quickly my 8th dose !! my triple mask !!
for? the 2 cases arrived from south africa ... and the united kingdom has cut ties with south africa since.
the goal is to slow down, it will be impossible to contain because we have decided as human beings to promote international travel for public health.
"vote for the team i should vote"
????????
i misunderstood the question
nordic? oh....
obviously it's the senators.
a team that is very interesting to see playing right now is the flames, they changed coaches recently and that makes all the difference. it remains to be seen if it's not just a flash in the pan but if you want to take for a canadian team you can go with them.
phoenix for the lol
what did you expect from a club that has lost all its defense since last season? even scotty bowman would be unable to manage this team at a positive record.
become an oilers fan, and assume yourself by saying it's fair to mcdavid and draisaitl. nothing wrong with that when it comes to such talents.
e: two hours later, we win against the penguins who shot ** fifty times ** at the net. a chance that allen can steal it sometimes!
who i should vote for
sorry! the nordics are no longer there
good
i know that was the xp joke but i was laughing
it would have been nice for the nordics
it was not foolish this time ...
> thus, all foreign citizens who have stayed in southern africa during the last 14 can no longer enter canada.
good yon finally figured out that the world was just getting a transfer. nice.
that south africa, with its vaccination rate of 23.8% according to la presse, has become a veritable variant incubator which has ended up hatching a strain capable of shaking the entire planet - because we wanted more! - is utterly mind-boggling and mind-boggling and unexpected. who would've believed that ?!?!?
at last! good choice!
"for the moment, canadian authorities have not detected a case of the new variant in the country," said dr theresa tam, director of the public health agency of canada. "
don't jinx us lol.
it's not just africa. omicron has been detected in belgium and hong kong. it is very highly probable that it is already here
it could make a * nasty * * household * among unvaccinated conspiracies, if i understand correctly ....
> the minister of health, jean-yves duclos, and the minister of transport, omar alghabra, announced on friday a package of measures to report the spread of this new variant.
> thus, all foreign citizens who have stayed in southern africa during the last 14 can no longer enter canada. countries include south africa, mozambique, botswana, zimbabwe, eswatini's lesotho, and namibia.
> in addition, everyone who has arrived in canada in the past two weeks, whether they are canadians or foreigners, must self-isolate and take a covid-19 test and must wait for the negative result of this covid test before to come out of their period of isolation.
before kapote with the new variant, is it dangerous if you are vaccinated?
if not pk are we vaccinated?
oh no another variant onnn
easier politically when it comes to africa.
it changes fuck all if people can go to europe.
i wanted to do the same on border management that we have not learned from the previous 4 or 5 waves. like padme and anakin.
lol, the rich countries are in 3 doses and the children while we let the poor countries die, and when a variant pops over there we have our pikachus in the face
it takes 14 days to incubate. already detected in europe and asia. it would surprise me if it's not already in the us and canada
"we haven't tested for it, but we haven't detected any!"
there are almost more non-vaxxers left.
a moment, it will take other arguments
good good depending on who what when.
you are not ashamed to wish the world bad luck too ...
i don't know you know it, but the flu for example, every season it mutates and you have to get vaccinated every season too ... the covid is a little similar in this sense too
tell me you don't know trudeau without telling me you don't know trudeau
yo we calm down please
🖕🏻
🖕🏻
it would be the first step towards an ultra sanitary society. it is extremely dangerous, if no one is sick anymore, our immune system will become weak. as much as the flu is unpleasant, it also protects us from complications from other illnesses. that and other virtually harmless diseases.
it's just fud. it's a hypothetical situation that has no reason to happen that's just there to scare the world.
we have been able to live and go with the flu in overloading the health care system for years. we are not able with covid for a lot of reasons: more contagious virus, more dangerous (more risk of serious cases), few treatments.
unless the flu virus mutates to the point of creating a new pandemic, we just won't have a flu shot passport.
that said, it's still a good idea to get a flu shot if you're at risk or around people at risk of developing complications.
freedom sti.
no it's not satire
omfg…..
more sanitary = better, in all cases regardless of the context. right?
if we give the flu vaccine free and as easily accessible as we did for the covid, why not.
your papers please.
yes.
excellent point. you can even appropriate an entire continent with the right flu and the blankets.
our immune system would not be weak, vaccines are used precisely to increase its immunity against viruses. that has nothing to do with it!
the flu vaccine is already free and also easily accessible for the world at risk of complications and the majority of relatives.
after that, there is no reason to need a flu vaccine passport. we already know how to deal with it without putting the health system on the ground.
wool it stings
the health system is already down when things are going well. at the moment we are in the 4th basement
it is free for some people, not the whole population.
i never said it was free for the whole population
rep
i listened to this show a few weeks ago for the first time. it was excellent.
it's not all that has aged well, eh! the amalgamation of transsexuality and bestiality, ish!
thank you for sharing.
it's too rational for common sense
the reason the world is panicking with this variant is that the mutations are on the protein the vaccine is targeting. it could mean that our vaccines are not effective against this variant.
seal, it is not in 2022 that we will see the nordiques again ..... 😥
there are a lot of questions that the article (and every other article of the last few days on the subject) does not answer.
* is the variant resistant to vaccines?
the article has a passage that says:
> at this point, south african scientists are unsure of the effectiveness of existing vaccines against the new form of the virus.
knowing that scientists are cautious about stepping forward on anything when they are not sure, this cannot be taken as a sign that the variant will resist vaccines. basically, we just don't know at all, but viruses don't tend to mutate drastically enough to make super effective vaccines completely useless in such a short time. the covid-19 virus even less since it does not mutate particularly quickly compared to other viruses.
* does the new variant increase the risk of hospitalization or death? is there a difference between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated?
again, no answer and even no mention of this variable there in the article. if it did, i think the media would jump on the news, so that remains to be seen, but it's looking good.
otherwise, the article seems to mention that the people who tested positive for this variant were unvaccinated (at least most), suggesting that the effectiveness of the vaccines would not be significantly reduced. .
the variant appears to escape the immune system of the unvaccinated more easily, but there is no mention of vaccine immunity. the whole reaction of european countries closing their borders and banning flights to and from south africa not only seems to me to be sheer irrational panic, but even the who cannot stand this reaction.
we'll see what happens, but for now it looks like a storm in a glass of water.
fuck why south park has to be right again
cursed that this end of the world will not end.
[deleted]
i bless the covids down in africa ~
no no no tell me it's not true
new multi-strain vaccines are needed.
moderna is working on it now
so the vaccine is useless for this variant?
and yen who believe that we will get rid of the mask in 2022. i hope you are ready for further containment.
tabarnak from ... colisse !!! of ostia of sacrament of marde that chui tanned of the package of restrictions of. fucking. marrrrrrdeeeeee !!!!!
terrifying. only a curfew can stop this.
it is a popular good reason.
at worst, creating new vaccines for this variant would not be very complicated with mrna technology, it would not need to prove itself completely.
defeating natural immunity also requires many more mutations. however, it is not known what exactly happens when someone who has been vaccinated subsequently becomes infected, because the body is less likely to produce these new antibodies and instead produces those it already knows (from the vaccination).
apparently this variant appears to be part of the original wuhan variant and made its own way. we still know very little about this one, far too little to panic. we have been hearing about the fear of vaccine variants for a long time, we were only waiting for that.
exactly my reaction
🦭
if we're lucky we might have our nordic variant!
yeah, for the risk of hospitalizations, we do not know anything. for all we know, the mutations could cause the infection to have really become mild compared to delta or even comparable to a cold. on the other hand, i did not come anything wrong to go there with an excess of caution in this case with regard to the borders.
the french flag when the kid has a strong quebec accent.
ouan.
for two seconds i thought it was called crosspost.
the kid is skating, skateboarding, origami and speaks 5 languages, well done. hoping that he and his generation find a way to save the planet!
when i spoke with some parisians, they immediately identified my canadian accent. they made fun of quebecois expressions / slangs.
in montreal, this is the reality of many immigrant families! the language of mom, that of dad, that of the school and that of the youtube videos!
based
sick the little one.
the quessé co in spanish seems to me that it looks a lot like us
"i would like that too there but ..."
the other person was no worse too, he seemed extremely fluent in all the languages he spoke
they have a youtube channel and instagram account if you are interested
[  
[
very cool. do you think he learns this on purpose or gets shoved in the ass?
he's so cute.
i’m from the us and speak french with a québécois accent as my parents were from quebec and my primary school years were in a bilingual catholic school taught by nuns from quebec. paris is awful re speaking french and i’m oftentimes misunderstood. however in the south of france i never have a problem and rarely am i misunderstood. stay away from paris and go to marseille! the people are much nicer there!
i expected to hear him say: war, war, spa is no reason to hurt yourself!
the proof that english is the mixture of japanese, quebecois, spanish and mandarin!
poor kid, his name is crosspost!
the little 'hen?'
*crosspoteaux
i love
esti i was there in the room !!!
i hesitate to take tickets for the extra, the sound is always really pocket at the bell center. how was it with the cowboys?
esti that stai good i can not believe it!
i'm going there tommorow !!! too anxious :)
* dear francophone artists from quebec, *
* the ottawa river is not an insurmountable obstacle. *
*with love,*
* francos outside quebec *
yes !! i was on the floor in the pit forward. it brought out my pride in a bad time!
the first show i went to see when i was 13 was the cowboys.
they will have a place in my heart until the end of my days.
i'm going tomorrow :) i can't wait !!
personally i'm going there tomorrow !! i can not wait!!
it seemed to be quite a show!
i was there on the floor (even probably i'm in the video) the atmosphere was in-belie-able. it hurts all over and i'm tired but 0 regrets. it’s sure that the sound was not great, but i still loved my evening, it was good to resume a walkabout like that after several months. in addition, we really got our money's worth they did almost all of their hits.
if you are lucky enough to go for the extra i highly recommend.
*covid liked this*
rockfest 2018
the demonstration at midnight with heavy rain
best show ever
on the floor how does it work? are there masks? i'm going to see a show soon on the floor i'm curious. etk .. if they do not close everything because of the variant of m \ * \ * \ *
wow i'm going there tonight, i can't wait!
thank you for sharing your pride! we need it.
long live our culture!
my top 3 bands from here:
\ -the cowboys
\ -the three chords
\ -the denis.
excellent show here....
mask or not ??? 50% just didn't put it on ... including me ... kidding in osti in a crowded room.
i'm going on december 29th, i can't wait!
[removed]
you have easy pride ... the week when we learn that 5,000 elderly people died from incompetence of our quebec model. i hope to be proud one day too
the systemic racist is just a buzzword. stop treating people differently based on their skin color and move on.
what racist laws? those that i know were considered invalid, in particular in bryden of 1899 ...
the concept of systemic racism only exists because it is useful in dividing the plebs. plz don't "occupy" us.
i was brought up at a time when the great principle against racism was precisely the approach you advocate. we were told that skin color didn't matter and that was the person that mattered.
according to this [article] ( which is titled * why saying “i don't see race at all ”just makes racism worse * it seems that for some it is also a form of racism.
i resent this kind of american theory. i agree with you and i will continue to put my efforts to get in touch with a human.
send this to me at pinel sacrament!
i read alexandre barrette and i found that he had worse a drop.
oops
calls people on his facebook cowardly but lashes out at educators and children.
ah and is he going to save the poor children this winter who are forced to wear a scarf?
but seriously, i started taking the subway again because i have to be in the office (yay) and i think i'm going to buy myself a bodycam for people like him.
considering that the antivax and conspiracies go together to make the people sweat, why don't we gang up in the metro to stop them?
recently he made a video and said that the demonstrations were more assertive and to threaten directly with violent act the parents and the school which would vaccinate their children, it has a great potential to make a violent act in 2022. it becomes more and more more money-making and certain of it is conspi seriously begins to turn to a terrorist discourse. he also has creve-coeur who said, vla a few week, that the doctors should have defeated. i'm really scared when 2022 one of them takes action. i just can't understand how this sectarian "movement" has grown so much and that their number is increasing a bit all over the world. it's crazy to see so many people gulping down q anon's shit. funny era that are about to live. great return of violence in sight. are going to hope that in quebec this is limited to some urluberlu like them and that it does not generalize like in the usa, france and russia
it would be a shame if someone hurt him. i would be really sorry.
the mask traumatizes a lot less children than this idiot crunch there.
harassment on minors, i think there are laws against that!
who is this guy?
this guy is really a very special case
but what a plague! in addition, he was protesting at sainte-justine hospital, which is right next to my home. if i hadn't had a university exam i would have been there to laugh a little ...
if the guy does this often, it might be best to pull the emergency brake while the subway is in a tunnel. the guy will be stuck on the train and security can come and pick him up.
it's pretty obvious the guy is looking for a showdown. regardless of the subject.
is it because of him that the green line is closed?
i sincerely believe he has a mental illness. someone doing this who loses control and is constantly in paranoia, these are symptoms very similar to those of schyzophrenia. i have no medical aptitude. i am simply relating what seems to me to be out of empathy. it seems to me that he needs help, not hate.
can we really be so beside the mark that thinking of changing the world by shouting insults at people ...
yyé enough idiots to do that..and put your home address on the internet .... hummm "what's the worst that can happen?" "¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯ //www.facebook .com / photo /? fbid = 213116280513641 & set = ecnf.100054458116097
something like this can end really badly. someone is going to answer him eventually, and it will end in physical assault on one side or the other.
it does sound like a case of psychiatry.
omg lol i had read barrette too and i believed it for a really (too) long time
there's so much fishy stuff in the metro that you could start a web series;)
> ah and is he going to save the poor children this winter who are forced to wear a scarf?
it's not impossible. last winter, he made a video of himself walking the streets in chest with a quebec flag tied to his back at -20. i presume he thinks hypothermia and frostbite are big hot linen's inventions.
r/leopardsatemyface
r/hermancainaward
i admire the strength of spirit to die for his beliefs
the english-speaking community is more influenced by the american media like fox news, that must be reflected in their behavior.
we are sick of the sanitary measures! this must stop!''
'' are you vaccinated? ''
'' heille non! libarté! ''
gang of garlic heads!
whoops
i love this community ;-)
if you can speak french as well as you write it you will achieve remarkable proficiency in french. good luck in your search for a contact person!
there are apps on android that do just that, bring people together who are trying to learn new languages. i used hellotalk for a while. you can get in touch with french people who are trying to learn english and while you help them with their english, they help you with your french. people can write to each other, send voice messages to each other, or talk to each other live. good luck !
ça me tente! slide into my dm if you want to chat! i use discord too
vien t'en el coarse word jazé so po yinque a little you see me learn you so el quebecois
thank you! but unfortunately i can write more better than i can speak. the google translation is also a help lol.
ah, perfect! thanks for the information!
edit: no “e” at the end of perfect.
uhhhhhh, what? 😂
i can write better (also, do not add << more >> in front of << better >>, it is like saying << more better >> in french) than i can speak. the * google translation is also a help. ;)
he is willing to teach you quebecois 🙂
ah, thanks for the mini-lesson! i'll try to remember!
oh i understand. i was a little confused, it sounded a bit of a different language!
no trouble;), it's also the mini-lesson, it's feminine 😅, but yes for english speakers the masculine and the feminine it is extremely difficult to assimilate, but hey in the final it does not matter, if you are still interested in talking write to me privately for the discord;)
good to know! i find that knowing the male and female is one of the hardest parts. i will accept this offer and send you a message! thank you.
not yet the crunch of palm oil. crime that we are cellars, humans.
i buy local. to hell with veganism. i'm going to buy a local cheese 100 times before i favor shit made with palm or cashew oil.
the palm oil industry is so problematic anyway.
in the report they say that nutritionally it is almost identical to real cheese (saturated fat, etc.).
i don't even understand why it's still allowed.
to hell with palm oil.
there is no connection between veganism and palm oil. most vegan cheeses are made from coconut oil and / or pea protein.
the problem with palm oil is not nutritional.
except that they do that because it costs less, to the detriment of nature, in the midst of an ecological crisis. ah, and unbeknownst to consumers ...
i did not know that coconut grows in quebec now ...
if you want to eat just what grows in quebec, you're going to eat turkey wheat and potatoes !!!
louis r ** iel ** was avant-garde.
> concerning more precisely the pronoun "iel", one of the fundamental difficulties lies in the fact that it is about a pronoun from which is formed the agreement of the verb, obligatory and central word in a sentence. in this sense, a so-called non-gendered or non-binary pronoun in terms of the physical person has consequences for all the chords and words linked to the chord, for example nouns and adjectives, which complicates the choice. of the male / female agreement. in the french language, these chord choices relate not to the gender of a person physically, but to the grammatical gender, a notion that dates back to the latin language. over time, a connection has been established between a person's gender and the gender accord of a pronoun or noun. however, fundamentally, the feminine / masculine corresponds to a type of agreement and not to a feeling.
> these historical elements cause confusion in the teaching community; not only will french teachers have to explain a person's gender and gender neutrality when they are not specialists in gender identities or even sexologists, but they will also have to set limits on the agreements accepted in a given context. sentence containing the pronoun "iel". moreover, let us remember that a few years ago, the teaching of sexuality was the subject of a debate concerning the transmission of knowledge of this subject; who is responsible for this commitment? by accepting that the pronoun "iel" be used in class, these teachers consequently take on another role which, in my opinion, is not theirs.
there is a song that has the words "but where are we going aaaaa"
wait what
jean airoldi is going to give you a style ticket.
kind of t-shirt that can be found all over the world in tourist trap shops. we can find it with all the big cities of the world instead of quebec i pledge
cringe
of a complete moron. makes fear for the intelligence level of the wearer.
i had seen a similar one that said "good girls go to heaven, bad girls go backstage".
it is not false.
you made me laugh! i like.
[deleted]
r/arestraightsokay
too funny
we are going to pursue him since he thinks he is a police who gives tickets
ding ding ding. winner.
absolutely nothing distinctive to the city / country mentioned and universal cheap pattern.
no idea. just a photo found on the interwebz.
i leave a comment because we probably have the same friend
*guy nantel has entered the chat*
there is not a liberal who will convince me to vote for them.
on the other hand, overall, i am happy to see such a large party moving more to the left and above all, towards climate-oriented policies.
whether this is true remains to be seen. worse, it's a big if.
i laughed a bit while reading the article because the plq has become pathetic.
then i started to think about qs. it is really interesting that a party which, seen from the outside, seems a chaotic collection of small radical groups and difficult to govern, has changed the situation to the point where the oldest party in quebec is inspired by it.
this commands respect, even if i don't vote for qs.
\ [trying to \] give ourselves an image of the left and rule on the right is not bad what the plq has been doing for decades. i don't really see how it's a "new plq" ...
a liberal will choose a liberal. a party so old is riddled to its foundations.
> the liberal party of quebec (plq) is about to take a big turn. and it will be decidedly green and left.
lol, yeah right.
ha ha! the trick of making promises more to the left than the left. it worked for their cousins at the federal level ...
the caq and qs really broke the plq. ok ok ok, the plq broke the plq too, but it's so surprising to see the plq wandering around like a fish out of water trying to find what to do to attract francophones back to the party.
the plq can never be the qs without sovereignty, it is too beholden to the english-speaking elite and to montreal business.
😂
would a party of spokespersons for the patronage council and former caqists become radically progressive overnight?
like, pierre arcand is going to be sprayed with tear gas in an alter-globalist demonstration?
the austerity party ** -------> ** "progressive-federalists, resolutely green and on the left".
what? lol
plqs incoming!
worse after his cry that the caq will still come in majority easy baby loll
> me, i am a vegetarian, declares a relative of the chef, i travel by bicycle and i prefer to read than to listen to television, ** but above all i am a federalist **. the left-wing federalists who will never vote for the caq are orphans.
the new plq is the old plq. federalism is not a political project. quebec is already part of canada. it's just the status quo. one of the problems of the plq is that as the sovereignist movement is quietly dying, it can no longer be satisfied with presenting itself as the last bulwark against the wicked separatists to win in the elections. better crooks than separatists, it works less when there is another federalist option and yet separarist parties have no chance of achieving sovereignty. they may well present themselves as environmentalist vegans, we have not forgotten that they are bargain hunters.
wowwww that there is not a **** who swallows this ...
i know there are going to be some unfortunately.
the plq is a political chameleon.
with couillard we bet the law and austerity because that was what was in and it stole votes from the caq.
with anglade, we put the pseudo left because there are votes to be stolen from qs.
it is the last party of the status quo. at least with charest we knew it was the party to do nothing.
there's nothing new here, it's been like this for 150 years.
well, i'm less cynical than most of the world here. so although still skeptical i am still happy with the new management.
quebec is ** overwhelmingly ** non-sovereignist so it makes sense to finally have a left option.
we'll see, but if they deliver the goods, so much the better. with the old guard of the plq, which has got off to a good start, it is possible with willpower.
qs is a sovereignist? well then ...
this is what the plq has been doing for a very long time. strive to the left in opposition and to the right in power (well that could apply to the pq too, but much less obvious). for example, the plq of charest in 2003 and of bourassa in 1985 was much more to the left in the opposition than once in power
> on the other hand, overall, i am happy to see such a large party moving more to the left and above all, towards climate-oriented policies.
i don't really doubt the party's will to go greener. even the conservative-progressives are starting to take a serious interest in this, it is in the air.
but on the left? let me laugh.
the plq is the party of schemers, the corrupt, the bourgeois, the rich, the westmount, the elite, the full of shit, greedy entrepreneurs and people who hate the "little people". they may have a youth wing full of progressive ambition, this gang also wears the jacket and tie and dreams of becoming the rich elite of tomorrow.
it's going to be a plc 2.0, which does some * correct * environmental policies and flashes left, but actually steers right.
i never voted plq, but honestly if marwah rizqy took control it would at least tickle me.
lots of words to wrap this little phrase:
> in other words, the bcp has
not caused, by its actions or omissions, the harm alleged by the complainants.
in short, the prime minister does what he wants.
> according to him, quebec would benefit from requiring immigrants to have a minimum knowledge of french upon their arrival in the country.
why settle for "minimal". potential immigrants with a good french that's not missing, there are all over the world. in particular, from the former french colonies in africa there are several (example burkina faso or benin). these people speak french perfectly well and can integrate easily. ok, they don't all have engineering or medical degrees, but in a context of labor shortage it seems to me that we could broaden our criteria at this level.
with the number of french and belgians who want to come here, i cannot believe that we do not succeed.
yes but no. without a strengthened bill 101, we will not be immune to the blows of canada, which wants to anglicize us by all means.
yep, because all the countries of the francophonie are prime sources of immigration. it seems that the debate on french is just to make everyone accept that culture comes down to language exclusively.
special.
> in particular, there are several former french colonies in africa (eg burkina faso or benin).
yes, but immigration canada generally vets these immigrants.
> ok, they don't all have engineering or medical degrees, but in the context of a labor shortage, it seems to me that we could broaden our criteria at this level.
there is an important correlation between the level of education and the average income according to the studies. in addition, there is also an important correlation between the educational level of the parents with the educational level of the children.
the more quebec tilts the balance towards a stricter selection criterion on language, the more it compromises on the long-term quality of the immigrants selected. quebec already has more difficulty in its selection of immigrants in terms of logistics (more difficult to immigrate there) and statistically (immigrants earn much less in quebec vs. ontario, even after adjusting for the costs of life).
it doesn't come down to that, but it's an essential element.
the french are nearly 70 million. in addition, there are the belgians, the swiss and the francotropes such as the romanians or the spaniards. this is not what is lacking, immigrants adapted to quebec.
> yeah because all the countries of the francophonie are prime sources of immigration.
do i read a hint of sarcasm directed at those with a really nice tan?
what?
my point is that currently a job category in great shortage, these are jobs such as in restaurants or stores. no need for college education for these jobs.
the fact that francophones exist does not mean that they want to come here.
most immigrants from africa have no recognized qualifications here so if we bring them here they will just be able to do jobs with no education required and that will just stagnate wages. we have the big end of the stick at the moment, must not lose it.
it works in the short term, but it may affect the long term as well. bringing in people for whom minimum wage work is the best they can achieve is not a good solution in my opinion.
if there is a lack of staff for the restaurants, the best is probably to have more people "passing through" these jobs. students, for example, or other people who will occupy these jobs for 2-3 years before moving on.
do we really need to change our immigration policies to fill cheap labor positions?
the internet is full of history of french and belgians who cannot immigrate here. unemployment is above 8% in france. there are more candidates than you think.
there is nothing that says these immigrants are not going to climb the ladder eventually. my girlfriend comes from burkina and yes at the beginning she had unenviable jobs, but with time she climbs the ladder and has better and better jobs. in today's quebec with the current shortage, i think there are plenty of possibilities to find a job better than the iga.
the "cheap labor" positions are also important positions in the end. we need groceries, we need restaurants, etc. our population is aging and the birth rate is low. we need young immigrants to help fill our labor shortage.
there are tim hortons who will close for lack of an employee. its going to make people available to fill in the grocery stores which are indeed super important.
so these two guys are really cool: d
finally, the quebecois culture that makes you want to!
where is interculturalism? they don't talk about it ...
and why is erich preach nicknamed stone cold?
precisely, they don't talk about it, but their actions say much more.
what acts? i see two dudes (montreal by their accents) who listen to another dude a bit silly and who find it funny but try to take it seriously. it's hilarious. but i don't see the connection between interculturalism ...
wow, reread yourself ... you will see that you describe interculturalism!
that's the joke.
i didn't that see that we posted an english story for this. so sorry, speak white!
dafuk you just say?
bof, it's already done, the blonde of one of my boyfriend says that yoga and do terra essential oils can cure cancer ...
/ s of course, we can no longer be sure of anything here.
> "we seem to want to move towards what other countries call“ living with the coronavirus ”and probably we will not have the choice to go through this, but“ live with ”, when there are still so many cases and hospitalizations? i think it's a good time to take stock before christmas. "
but what hospitalizations? they continue to decrease day by day. looks like we live in the twilight zone.
i prefer a qs that gives ideas a little extreme but that make you think than to take yourself for the auditor general of the government in place. i am not saying either that i approve of everything that is done, to you not the quick triggers of the downvote!
hospitalizations lag for 1-2 weeks on the increase in cases.
we will see what the current increase gives in 1-2 weeks.
saying "yeah but there's no live hospitalization" doesn't have much to do with the analysis.
pe that there will indeed be no increase, but to speak of the figures of hospitalizations at the moment is irrelevant if you speak about the increase of cases of this week
will falloir choose who we treat ... who lives ... and who dies ... 😱
lea cases have been increasing since july… the lag is starting to be a bit long.
i agree, but the somewhat significant increase in hospitalizations has been around a lot more than 1000 cases + since the beginning.
all i'm basically saying is that for me, in 1-2 weeks we'll be clear about it.
it is pcq the obese anti-vax of 40 years and more one all giveup 2-3 weeks after the passport, thus are all freshly protected in spite of their rotten state of health. the others who did not give-up have already gone to the hospital and / or they have their antibodies
it can easily change in a few months.
we have reached 1k of cases per day. here. it's worse elsewhere.
there's a new variant. not clear how effective the vaccine is against this one.
countries are re-defining themselves. borders are closing.
it goes further than the "we are vaccinated at x%". the global economy and all that goes with it is just barely beyond your navel.
the world is in a labor shortage, covid is blasting production plants with major outbreaks of new variants, we are entering a cycle of recession, and are you still stuck on hospitalizations?
hey man, hello? just because your poutine and your check still go to the box doesn't mean that the whole world is focused on the hospitalization rate!
go kid with your deer in your regional park and leave the covid lag behind, you see no further than the dix-30 between the subway and the bouclair.
the world situation is getting worse and affecting you. stop denying the current situation.
yeah ok that makes sense.
your mouth lol
quality reply.
your doomer comment got the reply it deserved.
ouuuuu ...
i could take my cell phone or computer, go to a website and order something for myself by navigating directly through the menu to the section i want.
or i could put on my virtual reality headset, choose my virtual clothes and shoes in my virtual house, take my virtual car, go to the virtual shopping center, find the virtual store, walk the virtual aisles, find the object that i want, realize that ultimately it is not on sale and redo all the reverse virtual path and return home.
sounds fun!
will i be able to poop virtually, or will i have to get up from my bed and drag my slippers to the bowl?
will you tell me why i would buy an osti of headphones at 800 $ to blast me with the ad and end up in 360 degrees to buy virtual laundry and piss me off with shitty memes posts when i just can? have the same experience with my good old computer?
fuck facebook
r5: interesting video on the challenges of transforming facebook into meta. our governments have not yet succeeded in adequately regulating social networks, as the race already seems to be on towards even greater integration and control of our lives by technology companies.
hype, nothing more
i wonder how much facebook is losing per oculus quest from being sold. if it's to follow in the footsteps of this kind of virtual world.
because the helmet is superior in quality to helmets sold over $ 800 and right now you can get one for under $ 300 with an $ 80 gift card ...
am you already an angry old man yells at cloud at 26? i just can't figure out the point, why i should be doing this instead of just walking out of my house.
another patent from zuckerberg to collect even more info on me and metadata to sell to the highest bidder? no thanks.
i'm still on facebook to keep up to date with friends and family but the thread is so flooded with uselessness that i go there less and less often. the people i bond with, i 'pick up the fucking fone' and talk to them.
i'm at this -> | | <- to pull the plogue.
the virtual world gives more possibilities for advertising placements.
you shop online: website. la company ad on its own site. retargeting for 7-10 days thereafter, on social media / web.
vr? investments during your "trip", in the virtual shopping center, in the virtual store.
did you spend 3.2% more time watching an ad? we target you.
are you going to shop for athletic shoes? we serve you ads related to the sport in question: activities, equipment, nutrition, etc.
there is also the superior option of putting on your rv headset, staying in your virtual house and ordering on your virtual cell phone.
we can imagine that it would be on a voluntary model, like travel time reduced to a teleportation, clothing to a virtual click, etc. we already do it in games.
put on a diaper
loss leader to facilitate the adoption of a new model where facebook is no longer only the pillar of communication but of the whole economy, roughly speaking. if so, then it gives meaning to this questionable purchase which is already quite old.
that's not bad i think too, in addition to selling you a high-priced virtual house that is in the city instead of being in the remote suburbs!
a virtual layer?
honestly, pretty much everyone i know who has a vr headset can't use it for more than an hour because of motion sickness…. and these are people without their twenties and thirties college i have a hard time imagining someone 50 years old going to do their virtual shopping with their….
it remains to be seen how it will evolve but the vr headset was a fad twenty years ago… and that's never gone further than its.
yes! and there, i find the link made with neuralink fascinating
what happened on that date?
it's not so much the date as [how to pronounce it] (
le squa't
the sssquat november in the evening !!!
go to le go pi claims $ 200
it is for households that earn less than 56k.
it's not that much 56k for a family. if it can make great gifts for children, i am 100% for it.
..and 56k i'm not talking about the modem.
it depends on where the money comes from. whether it's printing new banknotes or creating pennies from scratch, watch out for inflation. if it's playing with budgets and taking a share for redistribution alos no worries. on the contrary, it will even stimulate the economy, especially if it is spent among local smes. i doubt a provincial government has the authority to print banknotes so i wouldn't be too worried.
it's to help people * cope * with inflation, not counter it. the nuance is quite fundamental here.
if you vote for pout, i'll give you 275 bucks! that makes pabst that my boyfriend.
election campaign * cough * "cough * candy promises to get re-elected * cough * * cough * damn i hate the caq.
it's a bit of rubbish as a measure. the caq should have offered free public transport to everyone, it would have been a great green initiative, in addition to reducing dependence on the car, thus reducing costs for families and thus making an ecological transition.
that's between 660 and 900 million in total (depending on the civil status of the 3.3 million quebecers in question).
chu really not rich, but as long as me, they put my $ 400 in health or in education. seems to me that is the right way to buy votes.
worse eric girard shit, he does nothing but pessimistic budgets to always arrive with surpluses? it's desired? (what i mean is that it's great surpluses, but is it really surpluses or just an accountant thing?)
without being an economist either. i think that by doing this the inflation will not be "worse". rather, it is a redistribution of money to the less fortunate. what would have been worse for inflation is that the money given was freshly printed money that did not exist before, therefore not counted against the money already in existence.
i'm confused. i understand it can help people, but a one-time check isn't going to change anything in the long run. shouldn't this money be used for more permanent measures? it never seems like a wise use of public money to write one-off checks, it's more like a giveaway to buy political support.
the question is more where this money will come from. he's going to have to give an ax somewhere.
does it seem like we have entered an election year?
nananes in the short term that we will pay in triplicate in the short term.
hey, it's * nice, * but a check for $ 200 won't change much for me, and i'm pretty sure it's the same for others. it's money better invested elsewhere (like, not in the 3rd link lol).
criss address the problem rather than contributing to it tabarnak. and giving money to pre-determined groups with no return right before an election should be illegal.
it can depend, the best way to fight inflation is to raise interest rates which makes less borrowing and limits the amount of money in the economy which gives more purchasing power to existing money.
the big problem with inflation is the human reaction, the reaction is often, the immediate expenditure of the pay in good (for fear that the prices will increase if you wait to buy), it is often excessive, people buy surpluses which push up the price of other leftover products.
now, it's a bit of a dilemma, pcq actually giving money will not help inflation, but it will help the population, especially the most disadvantaged. if you are on low income and you spend everything for fear that it will increase (it is especially the poorest who will spend everything pcq y'en we not bcp), give you a kind of financial stability or a perception of financial stability it can help this class of the population to keep money aside and especially it will help them buy what they need, the poorest in a situation of inflation, they eat a lot.
in the best case, it is a cushion for the most deprived which can even help inflation a little (impossible to vrm beat inflation like that for example pcq it is contradictory to inject too much money in a situation of inflation that this way of thinking is disputed). in the worst case, it is a necessary evil (it is vrm, price inflation is causative and correlates with child malnutrition).
the best is to try to reduce the amount of money in the economy while trying to help the less fortunate. our reaction to inflation, although social, is irrational, so it's very difficult to stop people from acting in ways that make inflation worse, the best politicians will deal with it instead of trying to change it. opinion. to be frank, many economists are still puzzled as to how to fight inflation, it remains a subject still studied even today.
it will help to do the grocery shopping for 2-3 weeks.
honestly, you give me $ 300 and it's pretty boring, but i'm probably going to go buy myself something useless or some junk.
it is not new money, quebec does not have a central bank.
siboire. 3.3 million people are low income?
like the majority of people who have commented, i am not an economist either. however, when you listen to these economists a little, they say that inflation is temporary. among other things because of the difficulty in the supply chain. so if we follow their predictions, once the problems (mainly caused by the pandemic) are resolved, inflation should decrease. from what i understand, this measure is much more to get through the bad patch, the time it calms down.
the quebec government does not print money.
freedom of speech, but just for me.
- the third
this gentleman has been married for 40 years and has 3 children with his wife.
and he is in an extramarital relationship with his counselor, whom he has known since she was 13 because he is very good friends with his father.
of course, that does not mean that he has had relations with her since he was 13, but all the same, for a self-proclaimed defender of the traditional values of france ...
this famous counselor is pregnant, we don't really have to worry about who.
definitely, mathieu bock-côté's good friend ([source] ( is the real french trump.
not as crispy as the stormy daniels case, but still. 
remember that it is the (quasi) -candidate who defends the traditional values of france.
this is cancel culture.
what does "closer to justice" mean?
imagine sleeping with this ... this homunculus, this waste, this llama vomit, this cockroach poop, this pustular boson, this blasted hymnomedary, this bitured borunculus ...
[
this is what the pathetic attacks of these ultramacronard newspapers remind me of.
the french are a pig people, it would not surprise me that adultery is part of their traditional values.
> remember that it is the (quasi) -candidate who defends the traditional values of france.
[stuffing young people, isn't that a traditional value in france?] (
its depends, what is his opinion on maurice duplessis. / s
"closer" is the name of a french scandal press magazine.
"in court", undoubtedly because the magazine was the subject of a complaint and that it will go before a court.
polygamy is an islamist thing. zemmour practices polygamy, so he promotes islamist values.
i was also going to say that there is nothing more classic in france than an old man who pokes excessively young girls.
the country that provides polanski with money to make films.
he has already been told (and he had no answer ...)
[
edith: la bromance by tariq zemmour and eric ramadan 
isn't it macron dating a lady 20 years his senior?
a counterexample does not change the fact that many "great french men" are pigs.
i don't consider it a counterexample. i didn't see it as an "opposition" between men and women.
i did not engage in feminist advocacy either. :-p in any case, i don't really know where this exchange is going haha
honestly, as all this happens between adults and consenting people without coercion, they can do what they want.
why hydrogen ??? what problem does that answer ???
if you don't need electricity just to let the tank fill up behind the dam, they are rarely full.
she'll take care of the pink line too
i promise 200 billion for the same thing. who says better?
airplanes are probably the ones that will switch to hydrogen. it doesn't really make sense to do a long distance battery flight because of the weight. also, in the short term, the possibility of retrofitting quite easily a gas engine into a hydrogen engine instead of replacing the entire aircraft. [iceland air has already started trying the conversion of its devices.] ( still quite encouraging as a technology, given the pollution created by a single flight.
hydrogen is a very interesting energy transport vector. much lighter than batteries, uses much less heavy metals (therefore fewer mines, which are generally harmful to the environment), and even if there is a catastrophic event the only environmental residue will be essentially just pure water (result of the combination of hydrogen with oxygen).
electric vehicles can be charged at home, no need for gas stations, dispensers, refiners, while hydrogen allows today's entire petroleum transportation / distribution industry to simply swap one product for another .
in short, it is so that his friends texaco, sonoco, ultramard and other swindlers can still make cash.
look i looked at my stuff and i'm able to go to 220 because it's 10% more important to me than to you.
at the moment the electric planes that exist do not exceed bin bin the 1 hour of flight autonomy, it will never be possible to achieve a less useful autonomy. in addition to being heavy, batteries reduce the payload that an aircraft can carry which reduces its usefulness. and unlike fuel, the weight does not decrease as the journey goes. so the maximum landing weight is pretty much the total weight an electric airplane can have. so yes hydrogen or low carbon fuels seem to be the most viable solutions.
hydrogen is very light, but i think we are far from having solved storage, right? the tank is very heavy to store hydrogen at very high pressure, in order to reduce the volume ... this is less of a problem for very large machines (boat ...), but for a personal car, it is possible that the batteries are always better.
fuel cells also used a lot of platinum in their construction, if that hasn't changed this is a potentially as serious problem as the metals in batteries.
maybe also find a less polluting solution to batteries?
did you know that the very first gasoline-powered airplane had a flight range of around a few seconds? luckily there was to understand that the current state of affairs can improve with more research and development.
rockets already run on hydrogen. it has always been the energy of the future. electric vehicles are currently a transitional technology, because battery technologies are better mastered to make them accessible to the general public at a reasonable cost.
in 25 years we will have campaigns to replace evs not hydrogen vehicles. ;)
they are not at all the same situations, at the time of the first motorized flight it was in the very beginning of aviation and internal combustion engines. today the development of electric aircraft has at its disposal more than a century of technological development in aviation and in terms of electric engines and batteries there is also a long way to go.
unless you drop empty batteries mid-flight, an electric aircraft is limited by its maximum landing weight. this limits both its maximum autonomy and the maximum load it can carry. a traditional plane takes off with much more weight than its maximum landing load, but fuel is consumed as the flight goes on and on landing there is just enough fuel left to get to an alternate airport in case it would be impossible to land at the destination, leaving plenty of room for transporting passengers and cargo.
it does not matter whether you increase the range with larger batteries or by increasing the energy density of the batteries, the weight of the batteries is the weight of passengers and cargo less.
so it's not a viable technology for aviation in general.
this
first commercial vehicle with a gasoline combustion engine: 1879
first commercial flight with a gasoline combustion engine: 1914
first commercial vehicle with a hydrogen fuel cell: 2014
by extrapolating, if the technology is viable before 2049, we will have done just as well.
i want to dream too, but the constraints are there.
people in the 20th century believed that one would travel in flying cars in the year 2000. and before 1930 the airship represented the future.
with the exception of a large drone that can accommodate 1-2 people to taxi in the city, the electric does not represent the future of air transport.
call the police, they will come and check and if they hear the music they will go and warn them ... after 2 or 3 warnings they give fines ... the more calls from the neighborhood ... the faster it happens will settle
i have them cancer esti from neighbors in apartment and i did not hesitate to call the police every time.
don't be shy about calling the police even on the day. the thing before 11pm they are entitled to is wrong. the hours allowed for noise in a municipality are generally only for construction and events. if you can no longer think in your yard because of the music even at noon, you have the right to call. the police are able to judge the situation. i have already called three times in 3 hours (their music was really abusive), they ended up having a ticket.
yes, you call the police, depending on the city or borough the rules change, here in montreal, it's usually 11 p.m. on weekdays and 8 p.m. on weekends, at least, the last time my neighbor was renovating his home!
and it depends on the noise, but the more you buy, the more they come.
you can also go and warn them that the music is playing too loud before calling the police ... a neighbor came knocking on our house once 4 years ago to ask us to lower the sound, and since then we have always been careful to turn it down the volume around 10 o'clock when we receive friends. no problem since.
i don't understand why people have the first instinct to call the police for this kind of situation
but was it good for something? didn't it solve the situation if it was “every time”?
it is the fear of retaliation. you never know if you run into psychopaths. the police serve as a proxy.
it also depends on where the neighbors are located. if the guy who lives downstairs blasts his bass a little too loud, i don't mind knocking on his door and asking him to lower the volume.
but if at 11 o'clock in the evening, i have to get dressed and get out of my house to walk the street to try to determine which doorbell can correspond to the terrace where about fifteen people are partying, fuck off, police .
it would have been my first instinct too but since i saw the police at their house and the next day it continued, there is nothing that makes me believe that they will listen to me more than the police ...
it was special. from what i understood the apartment was shared with a group of 15-20 people. i think it was a win from out of town who used the apartment as a foothold.
calling the police usually fixed the problem, but it had to be done a few days later. either because it was other neighbors' turn or simply because they were truly racing settlers.
there are going to listen to the tickets (it's like that we convince the idiots either by their wallets or by slaps his yeule). and after the tickets, the police can leave with the audio equipment ...
believe me that this kind of fools there that includes nothing of the head or the ass. i have waste of the kind as a neighbor always making noise with vehicles, it leaves heaps of scrap junk lying around everywhere. the municipality sends letters to collect and it's just worse.
if i trust my pedestrian experience, it is the law of the strongest
the pedestrian. from the saaq website: the pedestrian has priority over drivers and cyclists, who must give way. on the other hand, he must ensure that he can cross without risk, that is to say that vehicles and cyclists have seen him and that they are giving way to him.
according to the law, safety, courtesy and common sense: the pedestrian.
according to far too many quebec drivers (if not the majority) who think that it is still the law of the dominant> dominated as in the 1940s: the car.
me, i criss, i am the pedestrian i wait to make eye contact with the driver if not i let him pass, ditto as a motorist.
i trust no one on the road or on the sidewalks.
the white car looks expensive. so it would be the car that would have priority, because the owner's time is worth a lot more than that of the poor on foot.
/s
the tank cannot turn left, it went in one direction. the line is dotted.
the pedestrian according to article 349 of the road safety code. i had this conversation there last week with some friends.
in the car, even with the green light, you never have priority to turn.
edit: assume the white dotted line is a yellow line.
we will say the pedestrian but try to explain that to jacynthe in her kia who can not wait to get home to put her roast pork in the oven and listen to la voix / s
the tank and if the pedestrian tries to pass the driver has a legal obligation to accelerate and honk.
1. pedestrian priority
2. the rule that the priority remains all the same to those who continue in the same way and those who must cut have a lower priority.
combo: pedestrian at 200%
pedestrian always has priority according to the csr
if you ask the question, i hope you are not the driver in the scenario.
they're dotted lines, aren't they? so the 2 lanes are one-way so the vehicle goes direct in one direction: p
in whose eyes it all depends?
in the eyes of the law: the pedestrian.
in the eyes of all other road users including cyclists: often themselves.
when i stop to let pedestrians on crosswalks pass, they surprise me and thank me. when i tell them that i am only respecting the law and that i am legally obliged to give them priority they start to laugh :(
the pedestrian is not even at the intersection, it's clear that i'm turning
the pedestrian always has priority at an intersection (unless there is a red traffic light, of course).
the pedestrian always has priority ... on this passage, you have to know if he commits before the car, that's all
it depends: if your tank is a bmw, you have the legal right to drive like a douchebag and cut off pedestrians. you also have discounts on your registration if you verbally shit 1 pedestrian per day.
reminds me of when my aunt was in exactly the same situation and motioned for the pedestrian to cross and the pedestrian insisted she go first .. after that the police behind him stopped her and him. to give a ticket because the priority goes to the pedestrian.
pedestrian has priority but i have already missed being spanked several times in situations like motorists who you think they saw you but not or they saw you but they absolutely want to pass. be careful with your tanks unlike you we don't have metal boxes with security systems to protect yourself on the road
ok.
fresh story, brother.
you have to upload this on youtube please
[tabarnak that it's not good] (
no, easy spa!
i liked hollywood pq a lot but la moche is the worst fucking thing on the show. it’s really bad second-degree.
it must be intolerable.
the time that alan c. moore (alain simard) could no longer make his parodies ....
it would not pass in 2021 that much.
what a great find!
there is still a back story that explains where it comes from :) 
was it happening at moche musique?
a series on valérie plante that?
it's already on youtube.
i prefer to put sulfuric acid in my eyes and ears than to hear or see it again.
i have already listened to wild camping and nitro back to back, nothing could affect me.
it passed limit in time.
such! i see here feminists with badly cut bangs getting angry with the foam on their lips
nice
effectively! on the other hand, there seems to be some exclusive bonus content in the disc, i will do my checks to see if everything is also on youtube.
you will try caïdo if you are able to get your hands on it
> dissociative disorders are related to disorders associated with trauma or stress (acute stress disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder). people with stress-related disorders may experience dissociative symptoms, such as amnesia, flashbacks, numbness, and depersonalization / derealization.
cibouere, there are two in a row from * posted *. it is fake and even spam limit.
i am surprised that air-quebec does not have a rule against excessive republication.
fake. it was posted elsewhere and recognized as an influencer stunt. the rest of the video is missing where the guy pretends to be unwell and immediately gets up when people try to apply the emergency brake.
$ 150 fine
fake
despite the fact that it is surely fake, what should one do in this kind of situation if it is true? activated the emergency brake, call 911? truly. i am looking for a serious answer.
damaging public property to make tiktoks. yayyyy …… ..
amen!!!
both, emergency brake and 911. in the meantime give first aid.
this is what i would do.
thanks, i'm probably able to do the first two throws a priori but i really should learn cpr and first aid. the only thing i know is that cpr has to have a stay alive rhythm. ah! and that it's better to do that than do nothing. i have been told the opposite at times but i believe that in a situation like this if it is true, you have a better chance of saving a life by spanking something than by improving the situation.
totally agree with you.
do you have a picture of what it looks like?
** ingredients for the snow squares **
1 gelatin envelope
4 tbsp. cold water
1 cup of boiling water
2/3 cup of white sugar
3 egg whites
1/4 of c. salt
1 c. vanilla
1 cup graham cracker crumbs (about 16 cookies)
\ * you can replace the graham cracker crumbs with crumbled corn flakes
** ingredients for the butter sauce **
2 egg yolks
1/3 cup of white sugar
1/3 cup of melted butter (or margarine)
1/3 cup of whipped cream
1 c. 1 tbsp fresh lemon zest \ *
2 tbsp. lemon juice \ *
\ * you can replace the last two ingredients with 3 tbsp. maple syrup
** making snow squares **
** note: ** avoid doubling the recipe. the mixture will be harder to beat adequately.
put the gelatin in cold water and let soak for 5 minutes.
add boiling water and stir until completely dissolved.
add the sugar and stir to dissolve it completely.
let cool to room temperature.
add the unbatched egg whites, salt and vanilla.
beat with a mixer until the mixture is light as heavy cream (be patient, peaks should form with the movement of the beaters).
transfer the mixture to a greased 9 "x13" pan and chill in the freezer for about 1 hour.
to serve, cut into squares to form cubes that you will roll in breadcrumbs.
arrange on a platter.
** making the butter sauce **
beat the egg yolks until thick and lemon colored.
gradually add the sugar while continuing to beat.
then add the melted butter, lemon zest and lemon juice (or maple syrup).
mix lightly with the whipped cream to obtain a homogeneous sauce.
** note: ** you can “spice up” the sauce by adding 1/2 tsp. 1 tbsp brandy or dark rum
let cool.
**to serve**
makes 24 squares. arrange the squares of snow on a plate and cover the sauce.
** grandmother tells you: adjust yourself! **
this post does not have enough upvotes, it's culture in condensed this recipe! thank you so much!
thank you! 🤩😋
i would be interested too!
> grandmother says to you: adjust yourself!
i think she says more to feast than to settle ;-)
exactly what i was wondering!
drive, especially if you have a subaru with winter tires.
driving will give you access to everything around quebec city that cannot be reached with public transportation.
a subaru with winter tires? don't worry! that's how we do!
car, and maybe change your plan (limit your travels and get an underground parking) if there is a snowstorm alert (environment canada). no problem with light snow in a subaru to go to charlevoix. île d'orléans might be less interesting in winter.
you’ll be fine with winter tires.
recent long term weather forecasts predict a harsh, cold and snowy winter in québec this year. there are two heavy snow storm prone periods in québec: december and march. if i were you, and had a family to bring along, i’d board a train and rent a car in québec. you don’t need four- wheel drive. normally charlevoix and ile d’orléans are easily accessible in winter and both are worth a side trip . soyez les bienvenus! - a quebec city resident.
drive! 
where from ?
merci! that’s a major boost to what i am leaning for ( so and friends are the ones who brought up the train btw). so, since you mentioned “ the surroundings” you meant charlevoix and ile d’orleans right, and they are worth to visit in winter right?
i only subie do with snow in the parking lot, no one around, traction off.. you know what i mean :)
the only solid plan i have right now (if i chose to drive) is to break the trip and spend the night at either sainte-hyacinthe or brossard dix30. 
i’m still also on the fence on whether qc or mtl for new year’s eve. 
i’ll start looking for hotels with underground parking. thanks
this. grandement apprécié. a bit of a disclosure, initially we were already booked with via ( so’s idea without my consent) which i then cancelled because of it’s price and instead flipped the fund into getting our subaru a new set of winter tires, brake service and alignment. i’m trying to convince myself that i made the right move. but you do make a very valid point, especially when it comes to bringing the entire family for this trip. and considering that this is also my first winter road trip ever ( shuttle runs to buffalo and niagara are longest i’ve driven so far in winter).
toronto
l'île d'orléans is a lot of fun in the fall because there is a lot of orchard but i don't think there is much to do in winter.... 
but if you like skying there's a couple of mountains that are about 1h drive from québec city, if the season have started. 
there is also the village valcartier, it's a water slide park in the summer and an "snow slide" park in the winter. they also have a pretty fun ice skating path. they also open an indoor waterpark. about a 45 min drive.
i personally really like the civilization museum in the old port! 
and walking in the old city is always fun in winter!
i know that some recommanded ste foy rather than inside the walls in old quebec. i would disagree. if you want a christmas atmosphere, ste foy is a parking lot with hotels stacked one next to the other. might not be what you are looking for.
there are some little gems inside the walls. i happened to stay at hotel morgan for a staycation during the pandemic and it was great.
enjoy the drive and have fun in qc city !
village valcartier, hmmm, it would work with the kids.. is staying around sainte-foy an ideal compromise between valcartier and the old city?
ste-foy's great!!! less touristy then the older parts of the city!
and i checked again it's more like 25-30 min drive from ste-foy.
our main goal is to spend at least 2 nights  strolling around the old city at a leisurely pace. and yes, to capture the christmas atmosphere. everything else is a bonus. you seem like a qc resident, if so, what do you think of holiday inn near the highway at sainte-foy versus hotel cofortel?
um.... i live here and most of my extended family too so never really slept in a hotel...
i've heard good thing about the jaro hotels... they have activities for kids and food in their restaurant is good. (sunday brunch at québec inn is pretty well known) 
the holiday inn is better situated for public transport tho! (public transport is not the best in québec city sadly.....)
but more then that i can't really help on that... sorry
no worries, im just trying to get as much intel as i can and since you’re a local, i believe that if i asked the right questions, your input will be instrumental to which part of the city we will end up staying. so if we go with train, realistically how far is the walk from gare du palais to frontenac?(is it doable with 2 pcs of luggage?)
if we go by car, how busy is bd laurier? i’m also looking at levis but i want to keep our hotel close to the highway as much as possible if in case we end up driving.
gare du palais is in the lower part of the city and the chateau frontenac is in the higher part so it's up hill and there is a lot of steps..... so i would recommend the bus to go anywhere from gare du palais.
if you opt for the south shore i would recommend staying in st-nicolas. it's super close to the bridges so you cut most of the trafic in the morning. charny and using the québec bridge can also be a good idea since less people use it cause it's older.... but expect a little bit of traffic on the getting on the bridge.... and car is necessary the intershore transit fee is prohibitive.... lévis "downtown" can also be a nice place to walk it's an older town as well. la maison alphonse desjardins might be open. he is the founder of basically what would become desjardins group, which is also a good way the learn about a piece a québec history.
laurier is fairly busy but it's a main public transit artery. you can jump on 3 different bus line to reach the old city in an hour or less and 2 of those pass every 15 min all day long. 
hopes that helps!!
is the hamburger talking?
eh yes! december 7, 2020! the hamburger! to say to me like the young menard calisse eating finite tabarnacs stew! the pédophile hamburger! to ya ya! yi ah! so eat all of the marde, gang of calisses, have me everything you wedged in the river my gang of tabarnacs of eateries of slices of young calisses of tabarnac!
please, sir?
ye you after having a stroke?
it had been a while since i had walked on ste-catherine, thank you for this memory refresh.
when i first arrived in quebec and met my girlfriend's family, one of her uncles spoke like.ca.
i spoke french already. but nothing prepared me for him.
it was sth
to you who do not seem to have too many teeth. bon appétit!
the calisses of ménard from eatery dmarde de tabarnak feni!
[son compte instagram ici](
please don't ask me why i know this!
did the guy turn into a black ops zombie for a while or what?
aweille my serge on the reddit astheure yahoo!
u / savevideo
here ... i have memories of people half drunk behind the residences of old montreal all of a sudden.
its little cry reminds me of the zombies in blackops ii
enriching.
a man of culture!
dude ... don't you know snapmappingqc? best instagram account ever. he posts less often these days but there's a gold mine on his page.
this one is one of the best but i also suggest lunch at 30 dolla's. 30 dolla's!
the guy has no teeth, i wonder how he eats it his * ambiguity *.
régis labeaume does not sound happy ...
probably a guy from maniwaki
half of the cars don't know how to turn corners properly here. i approve your message
also the world who literally don't want to lift a finger to put on their turn signal. it prevents accidents, saves lives, saves time and it is also the law.
i don't know how you manage to get around town by bike with the peace of mind knowing that we give driving licenses to disabled people who are functional.
yesterday i was walking home from work as usual. i see a car with a tite pinned trailer wanting to get out of it during rush hour.
i watch the cars coming on their way and there's no way the car will pass before it arrives. fak i walk into the entrance to the course, i see the driver not looking the other way and trying to enter the traffic, something impossible, so he stops.
still not looking at me, he moves forward a little. i'm not sure, i'm almost in his hood. he has both wheels on the sidewalk, so it was impossible for me to get around. often people understand and step back to let me pass while waiting to be able to leave their class on the boulevard.
well no, the old screeching decides to put pressure on the pacifier just after stepping back a little. i, who thought he was stepping back to let me pass, had taken a step forward. i had just enough time to recult myself pi squeal a good kick in the passenger door, a nice big crack.
ya cut the idiot between two school buses. he never saw that i was there. ya never look at my side of the street.
it has happened to me before. i had stopped to turn left and the cellar wants to go where i am.
i'm not moving. it's not for me to settle down any more than a car would have to settle down because it is too cave to turn like people.
so he starts giving me shit: "get off the road you have no business there".
whoops. bad move! <bug bunny>of course, you realize this means war!</bugs bunny>.
i don't move, my light turns green, i don't move any more. he starts honking like crazy. my light turns red, and zigging to line up like people, it blocks the way in the other direction. then, finally it happens to pass when my light turns green.
as i turn, i look behind, and i notice that a van is blocking the way; faque i decide to go drool him a little. i get to him, and then starts giving him shit (in english, to be sure he understands, despite the englishman's sad lack of profanity) when he can't get through.
finally, the van sets off again and the way and free, like a good fru moron, it unscrews full pin, just in time to pass on the red ... where was a police tank which was happy to pack it down ...
shadenfreude!
i'm sure this is in part due to the lack of tickets (for the consequences) of idiots behind the wheel. i bought myself a dashcam before the pandemic, and i had maybe 4-5 videos in 1 year ... since returning to the office in "post covid", it's easily 1-2 incidents per day that i could deposit in r / idiotsincars
the world that burns reds or stop signs, those who do not know how to use a 2-lane bend, those who block an intersection while advancing when it turns red and that does not move, those who continue to turn left when the arrow is no longer there and it is green in the other direction, etc ... i saw several of these incidents take place in front of the spvm patrols and i never saw the patrollers do anything.
yes but the bikes have already been the stops!? !!
this is content for spotted pages on facebook, that.
these times yes, it is the non respect of this sign that pisses me off. [sign] (
i live close to a grocery store, really convenient to walk there ... but in one year, i have had ** a ** person who obeyed this signage. the world isn't even slowing down, no matter how clearly you signal them, they get stuck, they'll just roll at 70 in the 50 zone.
i say that the same, but according to your drawing you are also in violation by exceeding the stop line ... (yes yes i know it's not to scale)
you were probably in his blind spot behind column a, be careful. a good driver is able to move his head a bit to see if there is a pedestrian or whatever is hiding there, but a moron driving, forgets that. stay safe!
in quebec, 1st avenue is dangerous. all street corners are to be watched (especially vis-à-vis the streets with names of trees).
causes :
\ - high population density of the district
\ - large proportion of cowboy drivers
\ - difficult visibility
when two douchebags think the road is theirs and aren't courteous or forward-looking, that's what it gets.
something similar has happened to me before. looks like they're assuming that since they don't think you have any business there, they're in their right to run over you.
anyway, now i prefer to take my tank. it's no use being right if you're dead.
i'm not even a cyclist and i approve of your message, ostie that the world likes to cut it short on the bend ... for the 0.06 seconds that it saves them.
suv vs bike: your karma will blow up!
i have the doua. / s
it's crazy for a city with so many crossroads to see half the people not knowing how to take them.
during this time i have a ticket to be not 30 cm from the sidewalk ...
it wouldn't be worse as a restaurant-bar, chez connard
awaye beubé shake moé l'bat
start you up, i'm going to shit
when my girlfriend asks me to say dirty words to her it's pretty simple, i say words to her like floor, dishes and counter.
ah, the good old days of "tackle in the head yvon!" "
speaking pig in french always ends with a giggle on my side, not necessarily a turn off, but when a good laugh is not the desired effect it can bring out the moment. it creates beautiful moments but it's like crossing the 4th wall in the cinema. long live english for sex.
["you withdraw everything, including the tampax"] (
dubbing old porn movies is a thing of the past
edit: listen to it all the way, the final line is just magical
i think it's conditioning because of the pornography. i don't see one language as better suited than the other. then, in french you can say anything to an english speaker and she finds that sexy.
"right now i'd bet you can imagine yourself sucking my cock to the beat of my lashes my balls on your face."
i don't think i have another thread on reddit to share this french porn classic.
and i agree with you op, i find that dirty talk sounds much more natural in english than in french.
watching porn where the actors don't shut their eyes is cringe in all languages.
"and if you do it like a nice girl, well, you spoil me damn lucky pass 'ate me' a plotte"
* \ * check his cell all along and go to the gym or wash the rims of his mounted civic afterwards \ **
i think dirty talk in english for someone whose mother tongue is not is really weird.
afterwards i grew up in france so it was clearly ridiculous for a guy to say “you secular maï bigue hull eh?” or that a girl shouts “oh yesse, ardor, feuque mi ardeur” (yes i'm trying to transcribe the accent), that makes a failed imitation of a cheesy porn movie.
on the other hand i admit that the first time i heard “i want you to come inside me” and “take you in the mouth and eat you the seed to the end” it took me all the strength mentality of a buddhist monk so as not to burst out laughing.
in fact, i don't like dirty talk, i prefer the instruction talk where you explain what you expect the other to do. i think that is universal and that even in uzbekistan we would understand the main lines
i had an anglophone blonde who asked me that and a francophone who i'm still with and yes, it's so much easier in english and exactly for the reasons you mention.
it works better in french now but it is clear that it sounds much more "hard" to my ears. we just got used to it, i guess.
i have the impression that there are more words missing in the middle in french. it's usually either too vulgar or too childish.
what are you doing, half-brother?
it would take people from pegas or ad4x to properly answer that.
i think the reason is that swear words in french are more related to religion and swear words in english are more related to sex. it makes english bcp more natural when used in this context
to have had sex talk for a long time with my exes or current conquests, it really depends on the vocabulary used.
it is really a question of written (or oral) expression. the more a person had a rich vocabulary and was able to express themselves in detail, the more sexy and zero ridiculous it could be.
basically the better your pen, the better your dirty talk.
shake moé the trout
me its exhilarates me the joi video by french. i become a real little obedient soldier 🤪😅
bend over to the big one, i empty myself
honestly i have already heard "put me" in bed and it did not make me disband, rather the opposite i would say. "pussy" is also correct.
i would like guy a. lepage to make a film about johnny hallyday with himself in the title role
cassivi responds to his colleague hugo dumas and those who have not quite grasped the film and the intention of valérie lemercier, taking it in the face, like a biography of celine, instead of a cheerful tribute freely inspired by his life.
but cassivi also raises remarks that i think are correct, even if it means not to please everyone:
> what we reproach valérie lemercier, it is not only to have taken liberties. it is to have appropriated a character from popular quebec mythology for the benefit of a work of fiction of which she is the author and the star, when she is french and does not master the quebec accent.
>  
> however, we must go beyond the dissonant accent of valérie lemercier. he, too, is part of the film convention. if the filmmaker had no consideration for the quebecness of the story she chose to direct, she would not have hired quebec actors.
>  
> whether we like it or not, céline does not belong to us. she may have been born in quebec, she lived in the united states for most of her career and it is in france that the full potential of her artistic register was revealed, thanks to d'eux, written and directed. by jean-jacques goldman.
>  
> “charlemagne's pride” is universal. céline dion is a chameleon, who knows how to adapt to please. she learned to do it from an early age. she takes a sharper accent - which is not so far from that played by valérie lemercier - when she is interviewed in paris, adapts to the oprah style of controlled confidence for the american media, then bites to the fullest. in the joual when it is in representation with us.
>  
> the semblance of controversy around the release on friday of valérie lemercier's film is a reminder if necessary of our collective difficulty in accepting that a point of view on us from abroad - in particular french - is not unmistakably flattering and without roughness. hands off our celine!
if it was a racialized person or another concerned minority, he would have been the first to climb the curtain and cry out for cultural appropriation.
all of cassivi's opinions are shaped by his ideology, it's the left-wing equivalent of mbc.
or a film on coluche with guy a and the title would be greluche ...
i haven't seen the movie, but in the trailer it's 100% based on celine. it's literally the same dresses, with the same songs, the same gestures. the same for rené. is it any surprise that it's taken at face value when there is such a willingness to model most aspects in detail?
i think the problem is the ambiguity of the film. it is not clearly a parody or even a comedy, without clearly being a drama or a 'serious' biography. this is where i think the difficulty of grasping the intention that undermines the film comes from.
for all the times that the french have dragged quebec films through the mud (we remember crazy ...), it will do their ego good to see that they can produce * real * turnips.
but in the end it remains a work of fiction that does not claim to be a documentary, right?
it is very true. a lot of the parody or comedy elements of the film are subtle or not significant enough with regard to the rest of the story hence the ambiguity, but for my part, i found that the worst moments of the film were those where the parody side stood out the most (ex: the famous scene of the "vôtican") and that on the contrary, the more subtle moments were much funnier, so i believe that the film would have been much worse if valérie lemercier had fully assumed this direction.
it's just bad.
i remember this story very well because the victims were in my age range and everyone in the area knew someone who knew the family.
i hope he will end his days in prison. this guy should never ever get out of it.
there's something that i don't understand, if she was 18 in 1996, how is she 77 today?
the father is 77 years old
the quality of the french in the entire article is a real pity. no understanding on when to end verbs in "ais" vs "ai".
a lot of people fall out of the bath at this age
hey boy it's phrased like an ass. thank you.
> it is through this horror story that rania *, the eldest daughter of the murderer, now 77 years old
unless they changed the article in the meantime, badly clear spa seems to me
it's clear zero, here's what i understand from the sentence:
** it is through this horror story that rania, the eldest daughter ** of the murderer, ** now 77 years old **
> aged
not
> aged
this is the second comma that comes to fuck the case, it should be after the 77 years and not after murderer.
the negative test is no longer required [only from november 30 for trips of less than 72 hours.] ( -november)
if you go this weekend (november 26-28), it will still be required.
i don't know if it's different in the car, but by plane even if you go there less than 72 hours, it is possible that you will be selected at random for a pcr test on your return. in fact, even if you've been gone for more than 72 hours and have a negative test, you can be selected the same. in both cases it is at your expense.
it's not very common but it's a possibility so it's good to be warned beforehand.
by car to the usa, no need for a test. you just need to have your proof of vaccination and make sure you come back in 72 hours. if you are flying to the usa, you always need a rapid antigen test for the flight (pcr also accepted). no test is necessary for the return flight if you return before 72 hours. also, whatever the duration and your mode of transport, you must complete the arrivecan application before your return to canada. it takes a few minutes and you have to answer questions about your trip and take pictures of your proof of vaccination etc.
if it's like at the airport, you're not the one paying. i was randomly selected on my return from vacation and had nothing to pay.
i know someone who had to pay. maybe he said anything to me.
probably it's different the 2 then!
in a restaurant or bar it's cool. at the office, fuck off. i imagine they do it in the office because there are antivax people on the team and they don't want to create any discomfort.
whenever it tempted me to go i was happy to be there.
we're a small team of less than 10 people, and we get along well, so it's like going to see friends!
stu me or everyone here hates his colleagues ... personally i see it as a happy hour with friends.
i love my job but outside of working hours i don't want to know anything. if the 5 @ 7 was in a restaurant or etc. that's another story. i still go to the pub regularly with old colleagues that i had 2-3 jobs ago lol.
8 hours a day is enough.
we had a 5a7 every last friday of the month at my old job. it was open to everyone, without any pressure (except beer ... hehe)
you were coming, cool. you weren't coming, cool. in the end, you're colleagues, you see them more than your girlfriend. some people become really good friends and it's okay to go have a beer with your friends.
for the christmas parties and to see our colleagues for a bit, it gives me the greatest pleasure (and especially good) to leave my home.
it would be more fun in a bar or restaurant than in the office, but it would give me great pleasure at the office anyway :)
(but my team will be restaurant + bar)
i never go there, that's exactly what you feel, a waste of free time to make uninteresting encounters where everyone presents themselves in a false face that is too sympathetic but not sincere.
even before the covid i don't want to spend 1 second with them away from work. none 5-7, parties, get together, departure party or wtv.
in fact, we can see in the comments the difference between people who love and hate their jobs and colleagues.
i got out of school and started working in a telecommuting office during the pandemic. i do my best to participate in the activities because otherwise i will have no connection with my work team.
"sorry, i have 3 children and ages 5 to 7, it's time for homework, lessons, dinner, shower and sleep."
i'm not a fan… sometimes i force myself.
if it's in the office immediately after work, no problem with that. if you have to go back to the office 1-2 hours after working hours, that's out of the question. outside of the office, it depends on the location. but in general i arrive with the idea that it will be average and it's not bad always average
i like going to events with my colleagues despite the big age difference. i am the only man in the department and the youngest. i love my job and my team. i wouldn't go to a happy hour every week but the team dinners / dinners, i never say no and i always have fun.
i work in the military and this kind of activity is imposed by the bosses.
it pisses me off.
it depends on the frequency. once in a while it's nice but every 2 weeks of pay no thank you i have a life.
i used to go there before, it was nice. last year we had nothing for the holidays, not even a small dinner at $ 10 to be paid by the employer ...
not even a little afternoon off.
not !
and i expect the same this year.
i loved our community dinner, food from all over the world, it was awesome! to hear my colleagues persist in knowing if it is the moroccan or algerian cuckoo clocks which are the best etc. it was a beautiful moment of coming together.
if not for the starting dinner, i went to those i knew close enough to have already talked about something other than the job.
this summer i went to a happy hour and a colleagues' party and i really liked it. it was the first time that i was invited to work activities ... it really helped that almost everyone was in my age range!
just missing a ttc variant.
no need for a vaccine. vodka, caramel, strawberry chewing gum.
how easy it is to kill the virus by passing omicronde contaminated articles!
sounds like a transformers name
read also:
[omicron variant: moderna wants to develop a specific booster dose
](
according to this article (and google translate), possibly 85 cases in total in 2 planes from south africa: [ uit-zuid-afrika] ( not confirmed omicron but it's really a lot, considering that ' not so long ago, the number of cases in south africa was relatively low.
i just know the planet omicron persei 8, but i just learned that there is now a variant with the same name.
[a classic] (
i listened to this song while cleaning yesterday, and the lyrics are really wtf in 2021
it is riskier for living beings, let's say.
** this is ** a name of transformers
whether or not it escapes the current vaccines, it will do no harm to have an updated vaccine to better cover the variants in place, knowing that the current vaccines are optimized for the base strain which is virtually extinct now. (at the very least, we don't hear about it any more).
$$$$$$
haha, cool! 🤣 decepticon, it also works for the covid criss 👾
its motto: “one murder makes a villain. millions, a hero ”. they have something to do with their ideas! perhaps it is so that young people can get vaccinated ...
exact. if memory serves, i seem to have heard in 2020 that once the core rna vaccine was in place, changing it to fight variants was relatively easy. we already have the recipe.
what i don't know is if they can directly use the new recipe against a variant or if they have to do a study with groups of people to check if it is "safe" beforehand.
yes they do it for the money but it still can help
really;) not to mention the concept of mutation and 'transformation'
edit: worse omicron, it turns into an airplane, the virus's preferred means of transport .... coincidence ???
it's of all beauty.
good question. i would expect there to be some testing anyway, but to go faster as the ingredient list doesn't really change. the tests are more likely to be used to ensure that the modification does not cause more side effects than the original than to really validate the effectiveness of the vaccine since the recipe is already no worse proven.
yes i had one from 2001-2002 no idea what happened to him though!
my parents have yet to have some in boxes. it seems to me that they switched to dvd at some point, but i don't know when exactly.
it's also something we had when i was young and watched on repeat. i will try to search my parents' house when i visit them.
i studied languages so i have a good command of english and i dated an american girl for almost three years. i think indeed a barrier is formed at some point when your words give the impression of being heavier in meaning in your mother tongue than in english. i had a hard time expressing my emotions in english because i felt that what i was trying to say was "diluted" by the language. it's also really hard to be believable in an english fight, lol.
i am bilingual, i work mainly in english
but if i met a girl who lives here permanently and who is not learning french, it would be a turn off
i would have no trouble with a tourist on the other hand
maybe your culture is more important to you than you realized? (sorry for the comment in english, i can't conjugate this sentence like people right now)
it's fun to have experiences together, and to have loved ones who deeply understand our culture.
my partner is english speaking. we've been together for seven years.
at the beginning we experienced some communication challenges but both we improved enormously in each other's language.
culturally, many more things bring us closer than the opposite ... same generation, same political values, same tastes for tv / cinema, interest in video games, etc.
like, i look more like my anglo boyfriend than a francophone boomer.
ah, and the two of us have mixed parents (algerian quebecoise for me, greek canadian for him).
in the end, there are a lot of things that come into play when you meet a person. the original language alone is not the only factor that can create cultural distance / proximity.
ah, and i would add that an english-speaking quebecer versus an english-speaking person from the roc or from another country also has a lot of cultural differences.
ok, i have a pretty different experience from yours. when i fell back single after an 8-year relationship with a quebecer, all the girls i met and connected with came from elsewhere. i wasn't even necessarily looking for that, it always happened naturally. seems like the common interest we had in each other's different culture was what connected me with them. it was a great topic of conversation and a great way to see the openness and intelligence of the other, i think. it didn't work with them for other reasons than our language differences, but i never felt that speaking english limited or prevented me from having a relationship ...
and finally, after 2-3 years of sporadic dating and fleeting relationships, i have been with a quebecer who has been teaching francization for almost a year now :)
yes, i had a long-term relationship with an ontarian. unfortunately, linguistic divergence was one of the reasons for our separation.
for me it's more that people who decide to live in a place without learning the local language are really not interesting since they are sending signals that they are not here for the long term or that they are lazy / disrespectful .
i'm interested in this subject but on the other hand - i plan to eventually learn french as well as possible. i am thinking of moving either to france, or to another country in europe, or to quebec. from what i can see from the comments, it seems there are two hurdles to overcome: differences in cultures and languages. it's fine if the two of them do it together, but i presume (happily) that i have to do the most because of the fact that i would probably live in their country. and yeah, that's exactly what i want to do. that's right.
i would like to make a real effort to bridge the gap between me and the woman i'm going to date, but in addition to just <<faire un bon effort> >, is there anything else you would advise me to do to be successful in having a relationship beyond the lines of our cultures? so maybe just make a good effort, that's all?
14 years old with an anglo. our first dates were a bit weird, he didn't speak french well and i didn't speak english very well. the number of communication errors lol :) but we were so under the spell of each other, the attraction was super visible to everyone (we went to the same school). we also spent a good 10 years wondering how to say something in the other's language. fast forward today and my boyfriend speaks french very well, he mixes his feminine masculine from time to time but that's not all bad. he makes an excellent impersonation of "mononc roger du saguenay". my english is quite bilingual too. now we talk to each other, it's one sentence in french, three in english. we are always so happy.
i have had three serious relationships in my life. the first two were with anglos. a remote with an american from indiana. one in "real" with an anglo from ottawa.
ironically, the language barrier caused less friction with the american because she was honest from the start: she had no intention of learning french and she told me as it was. i very much appreciated his honesty, on this subject and all the others.
we ended the relationship because she didn't want to come and settle here with me, and the reverse was true for me too. we are still friends to this day.
on the contrary, the ottawa woman told me she wanted to learn french .. but she made no effort. however, her mother is bilingual, her sister too, her father was dating a franco ... she had a lot of opportunities to learn but she didn't! the boots weren't following the lips and i couldn't stand it.
let's be honest, there were other issues besides his double talk about language in this relationship. i ended up leaving her anyway, even if she had been a tremblay du lac lol. it would just have lasted a little longer. let's just say that it ended badly and we haven't been in contact since.
now i am married to a franco-ontarian. we sometimes make jokes on the subject, but the difference in culture has never been a source of conflict between us.
english is the language of work and hobbies (movie / games) for me. it's easier for me to have an emotional distance in english. french is anchored deeper. saying "i love you" seems more honest and vulnerable to me than "i love you".
it's normal. you don't have the same culture as the english speakers. it is always more difficult relationships between members of different groups because we have less in common. even relations between quebeckers and franco-ontarians, francophones from the same country in two neighboring provinces, can be difficult.
in addition, you will never be as comfortable as an english speaker. you will always think in french. communication will always be relatively difficult. it's more difficult to express emotions in another language than to shop for groceries. i don't know what relationship you have with english, but if it is, like me, a purely food relationship, in order to be able to eat, you will have a lot of difficulty expressing emotions in this language.
there is a distance between you and english speakers because of the difference in culture and an inevitable communication problem.
i dated an albertan for a while, the language barrier launched me into a deep introspection. it even reinforced my quebec nationalism which was dormant.
but i made a point of sharing quebec culture with her as much as possible (film music) she was very open to that and had very good french (for an albertan!) at the beginning we spoke too much in english, i told her says "tokébec here" * and then we spoke mainly in french.
i love to share my culture (for example to french people in france). seeing that she was sincerely interested in the culture and language of quebec, i was ready for a long-term relationship but she left me for ethnic reasons (she is not white)
it fascinated me all the same that each of us was going through an identity crisis, but for different reasons!
*dialogue romancé
i am an anglo, and i have been happy with my french love for 2 years. it's possible!!
ps i'm sorry for my bad french, i'm still learning.
> i am absolutely incapable of having a romantic connection with english speakers.
it's not your fault, man.
i am allergic to the [valley girl fry voice] ( which is widespread among many connes of mcgill and concordia, but other than that i have no problem with date or love in english
nope not able.
i find there is a difference in mentality between quebecers / ontario
i have the opposite situation. i am francophone, but i have been for years with an anglophone, and now i think i would have a hard time communicating emotionally with a francophone.
i find myself funnier in french than in english. as if i wasn't that sharp in english.
personally, i am francophone, like my family, and perfectly billing, but i couldn't go out with a unilingual girl today. i mix the 2 languages a lot and i have friends who are also english speaking, with whom i speak mainly english.
i also had a * summer fling * with a torontonian who was studying at mcgill a few years ago. it didn't really bother me.
"the chef dominique anglade does not have liberal values, denounce former elected officials"
liberal values: corruption, francophobia, anglicization, corporate bs, unemployment,
the liberal strategy at this point is hope the anglos and minorities vote for them just like the pq’s strategy is hope the separatists vote for them. it’s an outdated strategy which is why both are probably going to be replaced by the pcq, greens and qs as opposition
increase in tuition fees,
following , ?
austerity
"plan nord"
oh sorry, corporate bs has already been mentioned.
what to do? independence. as long as quebec is part of canada, it will be bilingual and as long as it is bilingual, french will decline. french in canada simply does not fight on an equal footing with english: it is mathematical. and of course canada is a bilingual english speaking country.
deport blokes in australia and then take back les acadiens 🤔
/s
already, without saving french, if we subsidized francophone cegeps with as much generosity as what we subsidize for anglophones, that would be a good start.
give the french language office a real mandate to ensure that the language is respected and to issue tickets without notice to companies that serve french speakers in english, etc. etc.
but that won't happen, just in chinatown, getting service in french, it's worse than the 12 asterix jobs, the offer would shut down half of the shops and restaurants.
this battle is lost, because the other possibility is too easily accessible.
how can french be saved? you are closing all english-speaking schools, cegeps and universities in quebec.
teach your kids the value of french, always make sure you speak french to them, and that's it.
how come french is spoken in north america?
it's good that at one point a sufficient number of francophones arrived, isn't it?
demographics are often the problem and the solution.
if enough belgians, french and swiss land in quebec, it will be like in 1608 ...
after that, it is ultimately the federal government that decides on the visa ... so we come back to the question of sovereignty. at least in terms of immigration, because if quebec refuses an immigrant, he can arrive in ontario and settle in qc afterwards.
if qc accepts an immigrant and the federal government says no way. ben the immigrant does not arrive at all.
it's too late anyway.
make better integration programs for newcomers with adequate funding? encourage immigrants more to settle outside of greater montreal (easier said than done)?
make english as a language spoken at work illegal. with customers and partners abroad i understand .. but between colleagues? internal communications? french only or declining in toronto.
working in a jean coutu with a strict french only policy was fun. i liked it listening to two russians talking together in french with a big accent (much smaller accent after several months).
francophone and francophile immigration only. adapt law 101 to the digital age. apply bill 101 at cégep and at university. offer only programs in french in french-speaking cegeps and universities.
independence will not change the attractiveness of english among young people and in order to be more successful as well as have a better salary and job it is often essential to speak english.
> give the french language office a real mandate to ensure that the language is respected and to issue tickets without notice to companies that serve french speakers in english, etc. etc.
i don't know if you remember what happened the last time they gave themselves such power.
here are 2 examples of companies that have received a zealous visit.
- a small video game company in quebec city, employees configure their workstations themselves. he decides on their keyboard, screen, hardware in the computer, etc. after "x" years, when the computer becomes obsolete, it becomes the property of the employee and he can leave with it. when the zealots landed, they found it important to take a large black marker to mask the english words found on the company's keyboards and phones. here we are literally talking about vandalism.
- in a restaurant, a chef had a white board in the kitchen to make his grocery list. he had written "steak". the zealots erased by warning him that it was "steak" with a warning.
> how can we certainly save french? you are closing all english-speaking schools, cegeps and universities in quebec.
i wish you were sarcastic. do you really think this is where the world learns english? we are a bilingual country and they also have the right to an education.
teach them the love of reading in the french language too. the more we read, the richer our vocabulary!
discouraging as a response. there is the demographic emergency in quebec and the global climate emergency. two important challenges to take up, the first depends on quebec only and the other on everyone, but especially on china, india and the united states. we could at least start by rolling up our sleeves.
until the idea of independence is completely dead it will never be too late
all the languages little spoken in the world are threatened by english, with globalization this is normal, desirable? no, but inevitable.
lots of businesses that go to toronto too
the appeal of english is universal and lasting. the question is not there. in an independent country, in the west and perhaps everywhere on the planet, the language of use in all spheres of life, including that of work, is the language of the independent country in question. your point of view is a colonized point of view. what you claim is true in a quebec province of canada, an english-speaking country. the independence of quebec will not remove it from its geography but will take it out of the political, linguistic and cultural constraints imposed on it by its status as a province.
we are in a province whose one and only official language is french, it was even represented by the pq in the last few days as a motion and it went smoothly.
i had english lessons, i learned english, i consider myself bilingual. they don't need to be educated in english, they need to be educated in french, and they will learn english like other french speaking little pequenots.
also you gave examples of shit, like the worst of the worst ....
go try to get served in french in outremont and we'll talk about it again.
and the richer our vocabulary, the richer our thoughts!
english is taking more and more place in the culture of the youngest generations, bill 101 revised and flouted, montreal becoming increasingly anglicized, newcomers arriving in quebec and moving to ontario or more. far after 1 to 3 years (by sending their kids to school in french for nothing, ultimately) because they choose to speak english, the big bosses of companies who are totally in french, english-speaking quebecers who do not identify as quebecers, identity policies that are denounced as racist, etc.
i have been saying for 10 years that this is the beginning of the end for french-speaking quebec.
it is / is / his / these / knows / knows ...
when a pupil (in secondary 4 understand me correctly, not in 2nd year of elementary school) writes "i mean what that means", it puts me in an astonishing rage.
* what is the fault
i hate "also no" instead of "or else"
sorry
i went to look for my daughter
win for gang 😳😳😳😳
"that makes sense"
not the worst, but everyone says it all the time.
if i had 10 cents for every time i heard “if i would have”…
were there
i am of the generation that refuses to say "horses"
she smells "good" .... absolutely not able, my brain jumps every time i hear that. in this context, "good" is an adverb, therefore invariable. it is the state verb "to feel" which can be followed by an adjective, so the word will match. that's all !!
this and his.
there are plenty of them, but among those that i often notice on r / quebec and r / france lately, it is "wrong" instead of "wrong" that annoys me the most because it has become almost. systematic. we twist someone's arm, but we harm them.
use the word "assume" in any way. “to assume” does not mean to take for granted.
make sure ... please make sure.
the use of the word "that" as the only relative pronoun.
(the fault * that * i told you about.)
i start with "mesant" and its declensions "mezzant" "maisant" and others to say mets-en.
"you have to give him credit"
no, esti de cabochon, you're not a bank! you could recognize the merit though.
i am not buying anything that is described as being in ** good condition **
did we answer you?
it is sad the lack of preservation of the quebec media that is being done. fred savard often mentions it in his podcast, the impossibility of finding certain quebec films produced even until the early 2000s is shameful.
everything that has already been presented on télé-québec and radio-canada (radio and tv) should be digitized and available online, it is government corporations, we have already paid for this content, even if it was a paid service would be worth it.
i've been looking for him for years. even on streaming sites i can't find them
i am also interested
ahhh ce cher [classique](
the problem is often a question of copyright (sometimes it is divided into several parts for a single program: network, producers, actors, etc.). it's a real fuck cluster in quebec for that. and because of that, we lose part of our history. thanks to the folks who rip now and hack it up on the web because otherwise we would never be able to see anything.
it's totally disgusting. we complain that our culture is dying when we cannot even preserve it ourselves because of the hosts of rights.
many films and series are simply not found, even if you want to pay. i want to copy everything i find and squeal like a torrent
when i think about it, we must have a ton of lost media in quebec. i'm doing some sort of investigation on one particular lost show. it's interesting, but sad to see how little culture is preserved here.
how silly it was!
not just in quebec, the clusterfuck. unless there has been an adequate contractual arrangement for copyright and all neighboring rights (there is a shit in canada and they are quite specific), not to mention the transfer of economic rights to the cookie cutter, it will often happen that production houses decide to just do nothing with their content after airing unless the series or film has become cult.
but there must be the * masters * from once upon a time in trouble somewhere ...
almost everything from tva before digital and all tqs is lost forever, a large part of radio-canada and télé-québec also because they recorded over the recordings of other programs to save money. .
can we ban all ads from our life please?
so no more pickup ads with the voice of dan bigras or antoine bertrand?
sign me up!
"the courage, the legend, ram"
suvs are a worse cancer than pick ups, on my street 19 out of 20 house in one and correct me if i'm wrong but its uses a lot more gas than a regular car.
but if i am working hard, how will i know if my vehicle is working as hard as i am? / s
qs had announced this last week or the other before
if they can come together over it that might be nice
and there, since it's the pq and not just qs, maybe there are additional people who will listen because when there are people who react automatically to everything qs says by communist woke 1984 georges lopez
personally i think it does not go far enough but hey
qs didn't announce the same kind at the end of the week or last week? not that they have a monopoly on the idea, but it's funny timing.
many here will still remember the cigarette advertisements, the benson & hedges fireworks ... one could be due for the same household in the automobile advertisements.
the pq does not know that suvs now consume less than a lot of cars on the road, and that most suvs / trucks are now offered in hybrid version, even pluggable in some cases.
no problem that people are anti-tank, just don't make the world look like morons with the talk of big bad polluting vehicles: nobody wants to embark on a change led by thick ones who take people for thick ones, the government is already taking care of that end.
ban ads? okay, but also ban subsidies, tax credits, and corporate ads that pollute more in a week than thousands of suvs in a year.
this is nonsense. you just need a carbon tax that does not exclude maritime / air transport, or other industries that create a lot of ghgs (eg: cement works).
i would like the majority of this revenue to be returned as tax / tax reduction.
it's simple and it works.
let's ban all ads for cars, period.
casino pub pu.
reminds me of when they quit cigarette ads, everyone has quit since!
(/s)
energy-intensive is subjective. banning ads for vehicles that are not hybrid or electric would already make more sense.
rds and tva sport will go bankrupt.
it was about time, able to hear that deep, macho-wannabe voice, shit about dodge ram ads.
it's ironic that people want to reduce their ecological footprint. but buy a suv for a false sense of protection generally (go see the moose test) and have "room" a nice wagon can do the job more than enough. the more the wagon will be really more pleasant to drive than the tin box too high for nothing
i am okay. i'm no longer capable of truck ads before movies in theaters.
we are out of business in quebec - \ _-
14,580 different semi-arbitrary measures difficult to manage or carbon tax redistributed equitably to the entire population.
what our politicians are doing you think: .....
no, but seriously 14,580 solutions are more seller than a good solution right? / s
♫ puts his hands in shit for money ♫
i was so thrilled on this show.
if it's not listed on youtube, doesn't that mean it's a patreon excluded?
the best show
what happened to mario rock ??
yessss el gros!
i have the same shirt as poudy, somewhere in the back of my wardrobe. to think that i wore this proudly when i was in cégep.
it's st jean!
hull hogan!!!
i'm a mike ward fan but ... not this one.
oh noah oh noah
martin perrizolo shared it on twitter so made it public.
worse, pattenaude him? there was doing death air drum solos.
what about her sister, pute rock?
octomyde... quetaine.
mike ward wasn't even in the video .. i don't understand the link. on the other hand, i admit that he and chabot have a little bit of family resemblance.
seeing your reason too
there was also mario dance guys from laval! (the best episode with lj houde!)
it's just that mike ward got me used to humor a little better than a guy digging through a trash can and touching poo.
it's true, ringolos jokes are better
mike got us used to poudy pi chabot, i don't know where you were.
you should have stood up and crowned your camp.
i doubt you could be billed for a service that was not received unless you have signed a contract that says you want to receive that service and that it is non-refundable / non-cancellable.
call consumer protection, then call the order of dental hygienists [ marge( and finally the order of dentists of quebec.
and above all, never go there again, and write your story on their facebook and google page.
a cleaning comes with a 3 minute examination by the dentist. why refuse the exam? i don't think they just offer a cleaning.
then it's up to you to decide if you want to do the recommended operations. if you don't trust you can go get a second opinion.
mmmm, i went to several clinics and the exam is always compulsory ... you can't just make an appointment for a cleaning, it doesn't even work ... i think you did it for nothing.
they should have kicked you out after refusing it, that's the problem
it's more about a doctor but i don't know seems to me that if you don't blame you don't blame
maybe you could go to small claims to claim damages because they billed you for services that you didn't freely and fully consent to. you might even be able to get punitive damages for violating your physical integrity.
however, it may well be trouble for not much.
if it is the behavior that you want sanctioned, the best idea would be to file a complaint against the dentist and against the hygienist at their respective professional order. ( and  you will not have compensation in this case but the dentist and his hygienist may be sanctioned.
obviously, nothing prevents you from doing both.
edit:
i see some people recommending that op contact the office de la protection du consommateur. unfortunately, the consumer protection act does not cover the services offered by health professionals (including dentists). so the opc cannot help.
was this your first visit to this dentist?
[removed]
it's not been long since it's allowed to do a cleaning without exam, the clinics probably just don't offer it. you could have looked for a dental hygiene clinic (not a dentist) that offers what you are looking for, but it is surely very rare. previously, scaling was a delegated act, it was absolutely necessary that a dentist supervise the work. surely many people who are still working the same is normal.
ideally you would have told you as soon as you made the appointment that you wanted no exam, and you would have had no misunderstanding, you could have gone elsewhere (or probably nowhere)
but especially for a first visit or depending on how long you haven't been there, you can't save yourself from an exam (unless you go to the new type of hygiene clinic, which may not exist yet. in your corner)
you can file a complaint with the syndic of the order of dentists
remember that professional orders are supposed to protect the public from members of the order. they can sanction their members, and the process is typically free. it is possible that if the complaint is founded, the process goes to ethical conciliation.
formal notice otherwise small claims. the québec ombudsman or the consumer can also help.
you can open a file with the opc for billing a service without your consent.
i thought about getting up and going, but like, it's gonna be the same elsewhere, right? i have done several clinics and i have not found one that does not try to twist you costs without explaining the procedure too much and ask you if you want it.
dentists are not like the covid where they give you screeching vaccine flyers and make sure you really want the procedure to give it to you.
lol the services of professionals such as dentists are not subject to consumer protection law. you are in the field here.
at my dentist you have the option of cleaning only or cleaning + examination and it is 2 different prices.
> why refuse the exam?
because it is an additional cost
by law, patients must give a constantly free and informed way to get treatment.
a dentist is a doctor
[removed]
i understand! on the site of the order i saw that there were independent hygienists, but i did not know before this post that it was so rare. hope it will gain popularity!
personally, i have never had a service that i did not ask for and i have never been told that i would be billed, for example, for an x-ray, whether it be done or not.
it's a weird way of treating people. it's not as if it was already super paying to be a dentist ...
door. complaint.
overbidder?
boastful guinea fowl. there is nothing there, check me.
the verb would be "outbid", the person doing it would be ... uh ...
(help / r / quebec!)
i suggest the ventarde guinea fowl.
[
otherwise "fizzle out".
a moé -tou.
pissed off.
take it up a notch i guess ahaha
i find the term story topper more pleasant, no idea how that translates.
a vantard.
to boast "to whom better the better".
- worse, how is your little guy at school?
- it goes there in turbo, i'm driving it.
* boasting guinea fowl *, that's perfect. and over time, it would simply become "guinea fowl".
i always used brou fart as the equivalent of a show off lol
"around the same time that kambhampati’s latest application was turned down, another arm of the government, the canadian institutes of health research, gave dr. lana ray, a professor at lakehead university in thunder bay, ont., a $1.2-million grant to study cancer prevention using traditional indigenous healing practices. when the award was announced, ray said “we need to stop framing prevalent risk factors of cancer as such and start thinking about them as symptoms of colonialism."  
gorgeous
i don't know if i'm going to get downvoted, but isn't that racism? imagine if you were told "yes you chose black people for your team because they were the best, but you are taking away the funding because there are not enough white people." it would be racist af, and this is the same thing but with the skin tone reversed.
how sexist it would be to hire women just because they are women, not because they have demonstrated superior abilities.
>around the same time that kambhampati’s latest application was turned down, another arm of the government, the canadian institutes of health research, gave dr. lana ray, a professor at lakehead university in thunder bay, ont., a $1.2-million grant to study cancer prevention using traditional indigenous healing practices. when the award was announced, ray said “we need to stop framing prevalent risk factors of cancer as such and start thinking about them as symptoms of colonialism.”
this woman has a doctorate ...
when an indian of origin is indirectly treated as a racist one must admit that the extreme left is to transform into a snake which eats its tail.
hahahahahaha but what a beautiful society we are building ... totally absurd all that.
good luck to this teacher who is trying to bring some logic back to these “fairness” processes.
i'm gonna play devil's advocate. it's all well and good to say "i'm going to choose the person who deserves it the most", but how do you go about measuring "merit"? what distinguishes 2 people in terms of merit? with grades, it's a start, but it's not just that which decides whether a professor chooses a student to join his research team.
the professor wants to assess if the student has the skills to go to the doctorate, does he have the intelligence, the perseverance and the passion to get through intense and thankless studies? is this someone with whom the professor can get along well for the next x years, while the student does his doctorate? it is essentially a job interview that the teacher wants to do.
this is where bias comes into the measure of merit. if you have an unconscious bias that says "x people are lazy", it's going to hurt x candidates. and since it's unconscious, it's hard to fight against that. if someone says "i choose people only on merit" it means that they haven't had much thought for their unconscious biases and that they are much more likely to be biased in their choices. this is where the refusal for its funding comes from.
edith: we are not talking about the teacher saying "i choose candidate x because he is black and black people are disadvantaged", but that he is more aware of the biases that can influence his decision. that's all. he can choose the candidates he wants afterwards, but if he is aware that he favors the x candidates because of a bias (or disadvantages the ys), he will be able to make a better choice.
add to this article this one which shows that teachers in ontario modulate the weight of a vote according to the "race" of a person ... and it is a dystopia.
here is the statement he would have made in his request for edi (equity diversity inclusion) as well as an explanation why it is not sufficient:
>the academic team consists of the pk group. our group is highly diverse, being populated by men and women from many countries and religions and cultures. our group is also highly diverse in terms of intellectual background and research areas of expertise. our group has a long history of inclusion of women into ultrafast laser science, which has some of the lowest populations of women in stem. the corporate partners are also highly diverse, spanning several countries of origin with a number of women in stem in key roles for photon etc and few-cycle. we will recruit a diverse array of students and hqp during the course of this project. we will hire the most qualified people based upon their skills and mutual interests, with outreach activities to help. we will advertise in women in stem organizations. we will recruit via word of mouth, noting my recent female phd is now on a tenure track position in physics in germany. she is now one of the leading young women in physics in the globe, who was trained and mentored in my system.
i allow myself to translate a comment on r / canada which explains the reason for the refusal:
> while all of these sentiments are good, the evaluation criteria (which is public information) for reporting edi on these requests is to define specific actions that you are going to take to hire practices and support hqp in their program.
>  
> saying you want to hire a diverse mix of students and hqp is fine, saying you want to hire the best qualified people is fine, but both are vague. what do you think you will do ?
>  
> i'm sure his research proposal was more than "we're going to study lasers". he certainly had specific experiences described, specific data they wanted to collect, and specific hypotheses to test. there is probably an accounting of every dollar they planned to spend. you don't want to see vague statements in a grant application, and reviewers expect sections of edi to be the same, otherwise they have no reason to exist.
beyond the debate on inclusion, the truth is that the teacher looks like a little slobber and that is reason enough not to give him funding.
it's not complicated: in the grant application, he is asked to explain what he intends to do to promote diversity and inclusion in his research project and he answers roughly "absolutely nothing", and then he whines when it turns against him.
what was he expecting? what nserc shits in those pants at his daring and give him the money? to be able to show how he can "own the libs" without consequence?
if he disagrees with the nserc criteria, which can be argued in a legitimate way, well there are bodies planned for that, and the grant application itself is certainly not the place.
it is self-sabotage what he did and it is all the more terrible that it mainly affects his graduate students / postdoc / lab tech / research professional who risk losing their job for lack of funding , while his salary as a full professor is guaranteed regardless of the funding he receives or not.
in short, even if i agree a little with the fact that we have to review the way we treat edi in research, the guy is heavy in esti and he does not really deserve funding.
equity is cancer. you have to stop with this because the race to the bottom will never stop. can we stand for equality?
he could also adapt his projects according to the criteria for awarding grants, like everyone else. this news wants our snowflakes to react so badly that it could have been created by a bot.
is that in our heads too?
it exists for wokes! / s
welp, the esg scores are there
i had this teacher during my first year at mcgill. very disorganized and his class was boring and vrm difficult. but i still 100% agree with him
can someone answer me?
i don't know if i missed a piece of text and if so i apologize!
what exactly is the situation?
what do we blame him for:
did he just hire men?
did he just hire people with dark skin?
just women? righteous white people? just hippos?
i'm just curious.
what the fuck
it's starting to get serious.
what is the problem ?
you must have missed the news from the teachers' union in ontario which gives more weight to the votes for people of color than for white people so that people of color represent 50% of the weight of the vote! it sounds like it's not racist to tell a white person that their vote is less important than a person of color.
remindme! december 24
there are no direct ads-canada flights. everything goes through other countries.
just the same
edith: and the ban in canada is in effect now; compared to other countries waiting for next week.
i think it's not that bad a decision
i noticed something "funny": this sub also has waves. just before the "real" waves: widespread denial, "who cares about the number of cases", the "the media feeds fear", the rains of downvotes to report the facts on the variants and number of cases.
remember before delta: "the requins !!!!!!!!!!!!!! 1". and oops, once the gravity of delta was confirmed, like magic these people disappeared, never apologizing or admitting they were wrong. it will still be the same for the wave to come.
are you aware that we have an otherwise higher vaccination rate than in europe?
worse your "fifth wave" should already have finished the fourth.
shut up ye * le c * wliss!
i will be messaging you in 27 days on [**2021-12-24 00:00:00 utc**]( to remind you of [**this link**](
[**1 others clicked this link**]( to send a pm to also be reminded and to reduce spam.
^(parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](
*****
|[^(info)]( reminders)](
|-|-|-|-|
> this sub also has waves. just before the "real" waves
you should see the crypto subs.
> without ever apologizing or admitting that they were wrong
i'm curious, do you really go over old comments to apologize when you were wrong? or are you just never wrong?
> and oops, once the gravity of delta was confirmed, like magic these people disappeared, never apologizing or admitting they were wrong. it will still be the same for the wave to come.
nope still there, but at one point we covered the subject lol
the people at the office who tell me that "good morning" is an anglicism, i'm in tabarnak, good morning anyway esti
chesseuse.
were there.
a box of cartron
they play
"it makes sense" may well be an anglicism, it does not fit into my head that it does not fit into the accepted language.
otherwise i say "vanilla" by pronouncing the "l" rather than pronouncing "vaniye".
the canadians ** play ** in the evening
tse
"kess that"
i love "number" (from * shift * for shift). what a great way to describe the feeling of going to work in a mechanical, impersonal, and lacking sense of value job to say “i'm going to do the numbers at work”.
les genses (with mc gilles sauce)
back home, when i was young, we used to say "a" sandwich and i insist on continuing to feminize the word. it would be denying my past if i said one!
good morning!
there are so many people who bitch that it's an anglicism, that it's a "good morning" layer, and that in french we should only say "bonjour!". who are these people to decide if i can wish someone a good morning or not?
i don't want to talk about writing mistakes but i like the spoken word, the strange turns of phrase or the slightly off pronunciation of people, i find that it gives personality .. a bit like cheez whiz.
poffcorn
"adapter" instead of "adapter". it's ugly in "a-dap-ta-teur" ears.
"with not" instead of "without".
the internets
i am in dire straits ... in my worst mistakes.
if i will have
i will die on this hill
for my part, i like "belles gensses".
> the auditor general's team studied only 22 loans from the temporary concerted action program for enterprises (pacte), of which nearly half of the cases studied revealed irregularities. qs therefore asks the auditor general to seek a larger sample.
> in a letter obtained by the canadian press, qs spokesperson ruba ghazal calls for a “more in-depth analysis”.
> according to her, there was "clearly unfair treatment and lack of uniformity, and that is unacceptable", we can read.
> at a press briefing on thursday morning, ms. ghazal said she was convinced that there are probably more than 10 companies that have benefited from aid without meeting the criteria. “mr. fitzgibbon has not lost his old habits of managing public money as if it were the private money of his investment firm. "
> we want the list of 10 ”, for his part demanded the péquiste pascal bérubé. “who was the object of the minister's discretionary largesse? the least thing, proactively, is for the minister to make public the list of 10 companies before they are found. "
>**fitzgibbon refuse**
> ** the minister's response was not long in coming: “no. if i start doing that, the companies will no longer come to see investissement québec. it is confidential and there is no question of disclosing the lists, ”he said in the press. **
[“it's always better to have more transparency”] ( -françois legault in the electoral campaign
fitz didn't get the memo.
what a dirty person. fitzgibbon and jean charest it's the same kind of policy.
the pq made the same request yesterday, and the plq has also been banging on this nail since monday.
the caq will be stuck to do something, they will not be able to sit idly by this time around.
it pisses me off because i rather appreciate the management of the caq but that is unacceptable if it turns out to be true.
> the minister's response was not long in coming: “no. if i start doing that, the companies will no longer come to see investissement québec. it is confidential and there is no question of disclosing the lists, ”he said in the press scrum.
what absurd logic. a company that wants money from an investor but does not want to reveal to the investor what it will do with it will never have funding, period. investissement québec belongs to all of us, the investor is us. why would we as investors demand less than what any private investor would get without question?
the only way that logic would hold is if mr. fitzgibbon considers it * his * money, and not * our * money. and that says it all.
>fitzgibbon refuse
it's clear, these lists must look like the quagmire of the eternal stench ...
fitzgibbon is doing all of this quite publicly, he really seems to think it's all perfectly legitimate.
it's weird what i'm going to say, but the liberals were bothering to try to cover their tracks ... i concluded that at least they knew it was a little crooked in their business.
i am going to take a shower.
> they will not be able to stand idly by this time.
legault: just watch me.
what do you like about the caq when you say management? management of which file?
> your eyes, poor man!
fitzgibbon, probably
i couldn't have expressed it better.
public bodies and companies, and even private ones, have a duty of transparency with regard to their investors, otherwise they run the risk of prosecution.
the fact that we can accept or even consider that the government is exempt from it is completely ridiculous.
not only is he an investor himself, so he knows it very well, but he is also the minister of the economy!
did you follow the commission of inquiry on chslds?
several documents / reports are missing.
we will not talk about meetings with public health that there were no minutes. in fact the caq does not even leave a trace in their shenanigans, so no need to erase any. :)
he is going to fix the high speed internet issue, which is saying a lot and i have seen it closely because of my work. regarding the pandemic, they underestimated the potential problem in chslds but otherwise, i find that they managed well in a context of complete uncertainty. people are quickly on the piton to complain and act as platform managers but in my opinion, they have balanced the management of the crisis and the need to continue to keep the economy rolling, which was certainly not easy.
yes, but in this case (the chslds) i really have the impression that it is a * hanlon's razor * situation (incompetence) than of corruption.
note, there is a lot of corruption that starts with incompetence: someone makes a * big * but honest mistake, and we corrupt ourselves by trying to hide the mistake, for fear of * backfiring * (ironic as it may be). being).
i'm the type to give the benefit of the doubt. still, having an incompetent government is not really better than having a corrupt one. there's a venn diagram in there somewhere.
they had a complete plan prepared in 2006 after the h1n1 where the measures that the caq cost a year to apply were found. everyone would have done
as well, but probably better.
for the internet, i can't see what they've done. i have worked in the industry and it has been almost 10 years that there have been grants that have been given from all sides to serve rural areas. it's just extremely long as a process because of a certain big company slowing down the process to maximize their profit. if the internet is coming to the forefront this year, it's not because of the caq; this is previous investments.
the mafia is corrupt, but competent and their financial situation seems to be fine.
to choose between the two i chose corruption. incompetence also brings some corruption, except that it's the others who do it for you and you don't even realize that you're getting screwed lol.
edit: ideally neither obviously.
maybe, but maybe not too. it's nice to have a plan, but there are circumstances that make it necessary to adapt the plans to reality and that's where it can go wrong. lack of personnel, material, etc. i think it's just as plausible that others could have escaped it more than that.
this is wrong. yes, there have been programs before, connecting canadians, $ 305m for canada as a whole, connect to innovate, $ 585m for all of canada. and quebec released at the same time as connect to innovate (the 2nd isdec program) quebec branché, which matched federal funding. but subsequently, the caq put $ 1b in quebec (not distributed across canada) and also put pressure on bell to stop filibustering with the duss. with just the programs from before, we would certainly have improved connectivity, but not as much as with what was done by the caq. we are ahead of the rest of the country, for example ontario is targeting 2025 to connect everyone. we are going to be 2023 i think. i believe they will meet 99% in sept 2022 and the rest in 2023.
i do not see the problem. me too i buy small kitchen garbage bags to put in my kitchen trash can, and thus throw in leftover tableware that compost in the wrong way, styrofoam wrappers for steak soaked in juice, handkerchiefs when i get sick. cause to morver in it, and something else all sort of.
sélection is the metro grocery store, one of the worst companies i've worked for. they lied to me in interviews, about salary, benefits, working hours. i stayed for 1 month, the time to find something else for myself.
i still go buy from them once in a while, when i don't want to go to the nearest première moisson bakery.
but everyone has their own little kitchen, let's see! and the brand is only supposedly quebecois. if it really was, it would be written with an acute accent.
no, but seriously, it's small sti kitchens.
that's the funny translation!
but yes it is a quebec brand, the boss lives in the westmount district!
lol first harvest was bought by metro 😂
whether you go to one or the other it encourages the same shareholders.
première moisson also belongs to métro, just like adonis, super c and jean coutu
well yes you, just yesterday my girlfriend asked me "give me some small kitchen garbage bags please"
this is the r / trouduction
yes, i know, but where to buy real bread if not?
indeed, that's why i go to metro, they have real bread
before or after his stroke
true in the sense of no industrial cut? try google maps and search for bakery and look for anything that is not a chain. bread in the cities is a really good little chain. otherwise at the french toast in my corner. this is often prevalent in more anal bakeries.
i would like to believe that right now, in poland, they are doing a report on a dancing cactus singing "curtain" by plume latraverse.
* "damn it, it talks about drinking cognac, putting joints in the butt and it says sinking your mother-in-law in cement and then throwing her to the bottom of the river" says this inhabitant of warsaw originally from quebec. *
the toy in question:
[
a "review" of the toy by a polish youtuber (subtitles can be translated):
[
the original song:
[
words:
[
in addition, the cactus in question seems to be available everywhere on ebay, aliexpress ... it almost tempts me ... haha!
i spend too much time on the internet reading "sing (and swear) in polish about cocaine" and i know * exactly * what song we're talking about. nasty earworm, too.
whore!
i would have liked to see "walmart withdraws an elmo who sings from orloge simard"
lol
it made my day. laughing feels so good ....
> it almost tempts me ...
i let myself be tempted: 
i saw a video with a ton of these cacti just yesterday and i thought they were just repeating what they heard.
> nasty earworm, too.
i will not listen to it then, it will be 15 months since i have passe-montagne singing to me "it's hat trick to go around my head" non-stop in my ti-coco. the only respite i have had is a two-month stay with jerry boulet instead ... '' i'm of this breed ... la la la la la la '' # pucapabsauvermoé
i didn't know cypis! indeed, it sticks.
fun fact, in polish the word "cholera" can mean "damn":
i was just looking for what to buy my little girls for christmas.
same for me! there was like a wave on tiktok, too.
la laaa the smurf la la!
you're welcome.
yup, that's where i saw it, tik tok it helps me to make good poops.
my first reaction, before reading the article, was to think that it is like the son-in-law of the lady who talks with the toy after having powdered himself well. well that's not it, but it would have been definitely a lot of fun ... or let's say * even * funnier.
you are a dog man;)
ironically, he talks about gargamel and his cauldron in the pan in polish ... the circle has come full circle.
the problem is ass breath
"it's organ is usually a way out"
i see what you did there
as funny as it sounds, i find it quite fascinating and also surprising that no one has thought of it before, considering that the world has been "boof" anything since always hahaha
"breathe through your ass, calm your nerves!" "
soon, we will be able to dive without oxygen tanks, just inject the oxygen-rich product into the rectum.
but no kidding, it's pretty interesting. it amazes me that we haven't thought about it before, knowing that the intestinal tract is very permeable. casually, covid will have advanced science!
good option when word of mouth is not working.
fascinating!!
maybe it's me that's too cynical, but how does blood decarbonization work?
from what i understood from the popularization, they placed these animals in an oxygen poor environment and they ceased the state of hypoxia by supplementing oxygen through the intestinal tract.
but it still had to be the lungs doing the first step in releasing red blood cells from their co2? no?
in the event that the lungs no longer succeed in oxygenating the blood, the consequence is that it should no longer be able to decarbonize this blood, which will result in a state of hypercapnia?
i have a particularly lumberjack girl's boyfriend, who used this expression to describe someone angry or stressed: "the asshole was breathing from inside him like a hen" i didn't think to ask him where it came then one day i witnessed a massacre of chickens by 2 dogs
labrador came out of nowhere or i was working alone. ben ciborium the dying hens really had the asshole that seemed to pump (no it was not a turn-on) that corroborates nothing charles tyssere but it speaks of breathing through the ass. but at the hen.
this is the kind of post title i click before i think of.
with the amount of exhalation i'm doing, i tell myself i'm half there already.
when the airways are inaccessible (i am thinking of a serious accident of the face / throat for example, or an obstruction then that nobody knows how to do a tracheo) it could be a good alternative
on the other hand, i would not like to be the first responder who must "free the alternative airways" xd
anything, if it can save one life. 😓
first thing that occurred to me while reading "anal breathing" is drama class.
[i have great news! it's a suppository!] (
it smells of fart.
it's
usually
quite homophobic!
next first aid course: mouth-to-ass
for trips of less than 72 hours, no test need now  pcr-tests-for-canadians-vaccines-november-30.php
edit: from 30 nov.
you can try looking on the carnet santé québec to see if the full report specifies the type of test (naat). this is the case on my old test from over a year ago, but i haven't tried it again since.
[no your public test is not enough.] ( -canada)
the result you received must indicate:
* name and date of birth
* name and address of the clinic / lab that performed the test
* date you test
* type of test used
* test result
the quebec public test does not provide most of this information.
yeah that's it i'm in the united states right now
oh, i hadn't read this particularity .. indeed, public tests don't work. i advise you to make an appointment in a walgreen to do a free test. 
in fact, it does not mention the source of the test, but rather the nature of the test. it must be pcr, naat or lamp and the arrivecan application must be completed within 72 hours before re-crossing customs.
otherwise, if in doubt, you can take a free test at walgreen or cvs, you must make an appointment online, enter an american address (that of the hotel) and choose the idnow test
yes and i have already persisted for 15 minutes with a colleague who was convinced that it was "number".
no, what bothers is those who write wins or gang place. not true wins?
the only thing the french say that bothers me is when they say "zhe" instead of "the"
me it is those who write it was bag
no. i like english expressions that have been francized as cédule, clairer, lousse, toune or flusher.
are there people who say work figure ??? which region does it come from?
i have always heard "work shift"
tournade
yes, but it's easy to understand the error since in quebec we often do the contraction of multiple consonants in the last syllable.
chif '= number
shif '= shift
so when people who don't speak english hear shif 'for years, it's reasonable for them to assume it's shif', no difference in the spoken word.
the real debate is why not say shift. if the english term i add nothing to the french alternative, we should choose french
me, it is the mothers who say that my 3 years old and my 8 years old, not capable, and also we celebrate its 1 year
who tf says work figures? 😂
me, i always heard shift.
no but for pity
a is port
what triggers me are those who write "ster" to mean "tse". saint tabarna-ass-crisse-cul-fuck, were you born ortho or your mother rocked you too close to the wall? !!
yup. it makes my eyes cross-side 😫
winshear more alert
we will not talk about those who write "piastre" instead of "piasse".
no, because when you think about it, saying “i'm going to do a number at work” is a very concise way of expressing the sense of mechanical and futile impersonality that drives far too many jobs that work by shift or shift. employee is just a number.
the origin may well be in a misunderstanding of an anglicism, the result is nevertheless poetically emblematic of the situation.
what annoys me is the world which uses "strongly" no matter how. it's no.
i am from quebec and it bothers me people who say number instead of shift
crocrodile or areoport seem to be common also for quebecers :-d
> the jeweler birks had 10 million dollars from the pacte program to get through the pandemic, underlined the péquiste pascal bérubé. his difficulties were earlier. ** the business is controlled by its parent company in bermuda. **
what the fuck
appearance of conflict of interest and minister fitzgibbon. * suprised pikachu *
i'll save the comments on the jdem for tonight. it will be enjoyable to read the boomers defending him.
lets go we encourage the profiteers of tax havens.
government that literally encourages corruption.
even the shenanigans of this (mediocre) party are made in cabochons.
terrebonne must take it out in the elections.
legault just doesn't want to understand that fitz is a damn rascal.
the minister of tax heaven does business with companies of tax heaven, this is quite normal.
i don't think we mean to say that the parent company is owned by fitzgibbon.
just that the parent company of the company in quebec is in bermuda.
it remains ridiculous. the parent company could end its quebec business with all the surpluses from tax evasion ...
the federal government had the decency to limit aid programs to canadian-controlled companies, at least the programs that i know of (ssuc, cuec, etc.)
reason number 4 why the caq will lose my vote
no need for boomers to defend that. there are several on this same sub
it's still light years from the plq
> i don't think we mean to say that the parent company is owned by fitzgibbon.
nobody even implied that, why are you talking about this?
yeah, 'boomers at heart'. they are enraged too. it negates all comments on anti-caq publications.
it’s sure (for now…. let’s not forget that they’re just 3 years “into”), but if your argument to “look at this minister” is “ok but the plq did that! ", i call it whataboutism
i interpreted op's surprise to be related to this because the info on birke's parent company has been known for a long time.
lol they just downvote mine to which you answer!
hello caq simps! know that downvoting will not erase the corruption of this party
i didn't say look at the plq they are worse, there it is clean. fuck the caq.
i just want to point out that it's not from the same universe because i really often see people insinuating that it's also worse than charest's plq.
uh, what is birks' parent company?
excellent.
was le p'tit québec on the panier bleu site in the same way as fruit imported from chile?
between that or take saputo
we are not spoiled
credit: [news in memes] (
in fact it belongs to lactalis, a french company
my life is a lie
that's why it tastes bad!
a cheese factory is not in a super market that it is and that is where you will find quebec cheese that is worthy of being called cheese. just one example, all of the cheese in arhoma bakeries is from quebec.
[it's just for the rest of us!] (
i would rather give money to kraft than fill saputo liquido / groupe mach's pockets.
that's good, the italians wouldn't want this "mozzarella"
in english do we say "quebecer cheese", "québécois cheese", or just "cheese"?
anti-racism is racism that gives itself a clear conscience
haven't seen the original ad, what's it like?
the riviera is completely quebecois and excellent! lactose free and even better than p'tit québec.
dude, there are quebec cheese dairy every 30 feet in the region. there is no lack of choice.
saputo has scrapped all the pizzerias in laval with its not edible cheese tabarnak. everyone who made good pizza has "mysteriously" passed the fire. if you want good pizza in laval, you have to order outside of sacrament city.
so that between that or saputo, i take that without hesitation.
yes, it is the "fromage du québec" or the "fromage de la cosa nostra sicilienne" ... yes, we are not spoiled in this look.
sometimes it seems to me that a lot of things here in qc are done in a shady private club / cartel / association design ...
i really liked the one with kevin parent and éric lapointe.
it belongs to black diamond. shit, black diamond belongs to parmalat ... oh shit parmalat belongs to lactalis
"good cheeses can be found in -fromagerie-."
"try the cheeses from that bakery, they're super good."
chu all mixed up.
let's go, sike, get over it, i played this twice, the game is over.
yes why not?
whoa, but what a surprise! i never thought we would get a 3rd dose! i am speechless !
indeed, i don't know why it surprises people.
there are 2 types of people who have known for months that there will be a 3rd dose:
reasonable people who educate themselves, understand how vaccines work and how the pandemic situation evolves, and that a 3rd dose is bound to be the next step as vaccine efficacy declines over time and transmission remains high over time. because of the disparities between rich and poor countries as well as antivaxx fads.
and the cabochons who see this as the overt realization of a conspiracy and think they are the only ones who could have predicted that. worse, who will not get vaccinated because the problem is bill gates / george soros / big pharma / joe biden / the chinese / the great reset / the illuminati / satan / hitler's brain plugged into electrodes in a jar of formalin / etc.
not bad sure we could easily replace you with a bot because you repeat yourself. with the added bonus of the ecofriendly guy who comes to support you.
unless...
and is that a bad thing?
especially with the new variant
> and the cabochons who see this as the manifest realization of a conspiracy and think they are the only ones who could have predicted that.
"when the only tool we have is a hammer, all we find is a nail"
comment underrated man.
good luck with your 10th dose!
/s
> '' understand how vaccines work and how the pandemic situation evolves, and that a 3rd dose is necessarily the next step as vaccine efficacy declines over time and transmission remains high due to disparities between rich and poor countries as well as antivaxx fads. ''
/ facepalm
it's a cycle of mard that everyone celebrates. each mandatory dose postpones the return to normal and the abolition of the passport. we can also bet that with each new dose we will have more and more "conspi"
we don't even know if the vaccines are effective against this variant ...
you're kidding but israel is already implementing a fourth dose
how many ** mandatory doses ** are we already?
two or i lose my job.
but you're right, are not '' mandatory '', i can choose to live in the street too :)!
2
it's called the notion of "my choices have consequences".
in the normal developmental cycle of a child, this usually begins to be understood around the age of 6, and the concept is normally fully assimilated around the age of 13.
is that so.
if they are mandatory, why are we not 100% vaccinated?
i don't want a check, i want a functioning health system ...
elections feel
peanuts to spend at christmas in order to boost his re-election.
my christmas present would be screeching fitzgibbon at the door
i'll take the check, but i'm still not going to vote for them.
> the legault government is generous thanks to the “exceptional performance” of the quebec economy, superior to that of canada and the united states, and not because it is less than a year from the end of its mandate , according to the minister of finance, eric girard.
when you feel the need to clarify it ...
meanwhile, [in germany] ( ...
> as part of the coalition agreement, the country plans to raise its minimum wage to €12 ($13.46) an hour, from the current rate of €9.60 ($10.77) an hour.
>the move could boost the income of nearly 2 million people in germany who earn minimum wage salaries, or about 5% of workers, according to carsten brzeski, an economist at ing. he said the move was "clearly significant."
wouldn't that tempt them to settle labor disputes with their thousands of employees before distributing the money they supposedly don't have?
a check to buy votes, we've already seen that. unfortunately, the technique has proven its worth.
* crying in finally we talk about the injustice of parents who pay for an unsubsidized private daycare *
🤦🤦
sorry, do you want to get the check anyway.
think about it, you can make lots of requests on bonjour santé. / s
you can buy a lot of robitussin with the check.
> "i am not focusing on the elections, believe me," he said at a press conference.
ah well if you say so my frank
unless you're an old person or a family, you won't have a shit like dhab hahah
doesn't it increase inflation even more drastically to do that?
meanwhile here, we are offering $ 17 an hour in mcdonald's and they are not even able to open late at night because there is no one to work. so be patient with minimum wage.
i will continue to cry and cry foul. a tax credit of $ 1,310 for family income up to 100k? so what will it be above 100k because parents who make 200k in cpe still pay $ 8 per day. i can't wait to see the details because it looks like the gap between the cpe lottery winners and the rest will still be big, contrary to their promises.
put some! credits and aid always go to families, single people are always forgotten. it is expensive to pay everything with 1 salary.
everyone says it's expensive to have a family, but families around me have a much more luxurious lifestyle than single people. houses, swimming pools, gazebos, spas, trailers, etc. i still live in a 3 and a half. there is something that i do not understand.
from what i have read anyone who receives the qst credit will have it.
i am 32 years old but i would not have said no to having a puppy by my side while i am getting vaccinated.
my eldest daughter asked me if zootherapy animals would be just dogs or if there would be cows too;) unfortunately ... i wouldn't think so.
good deal!
my daughter went yesterday. unfortunately, our center did not have animal therapy, that would have been very useful.
i asked that she could go to a quiet corner and they did. she suffers from hypersensitivity and severe anxiety. she screamed like hell. she felt bad to do a show the same. it's not something she controls, unfortunately.
she is still happy that it is done.
but here, are we supposed to have a qr code? she would like to be able to do like the rest of the family.
i give you an upvote, on the other hand my son is allergic to it and he loves dogs :(
i too am partial to the idea of petting a puppy while i am getting vaccinated! : |
at my first dose, i had a panic attack ... between the first and the second, my family doctor authorized my dog as a counseling dog. my second dose went much better with him by my side!
lol cute
i saw a picture of my niece with a lizard, and i was told there were snakes too. for more classic animals, i don't know.
soon on our tablets, the qr code fisher price
there will be no passport for children under 12. sorré.
poor casserole ... :(
> but, are we supposed to have a qr code? she would like to be able to do like the rest of the family.
don't .. please don't ..
i don't know why but this comment made me cringe from start to finish.
she is doing very well now. a few seconds after her seizure (remember that she is not controlling her reaction), she burst out laughing and told me that she was screaming like a parakeet.
my daughter understands very well that she has a problem and that her reactions are not rational. she has wanted the vaccine for a very long time. that's why i asked to isolate him to receive him. she didn't need to humiliate herself in front of the hundred people present. and that's also why she doesn't go to school. it's already not easy for her, we will not add a layer!
this morning, she was the star of her class because she was the first to be vaccinated.
i really hope her second dose is less worse now that she knows what to expect.
there is nothing wrong with having a qr code which is not required for the little one who wants to imitate their parents
ok so much the better! hope it goes well for the second dose! thank you for the update, she is very courageous your daughter.
or to travel if there are countries that ask for it. we don't have control over that.
seems to me that it is quite insignificant as a practice that the child should not like to dream of being able to show his qr code to the host of a restaurant and beg his parents for a code.
in my opinion that would make it too easy to slip into the passport for young people and i disagree with that.
this is very good, it accustoms them from a young age to servitude and control.
it would even be necessary to tattoo this qr code on the inside of the arm.
it would make it possible to identify the right citizens more quickly.
the gist of your comment is that the pq is not in such a bad position ** if ** the caq is losing feathers. this is not the current trend, the pq is therefore in bad shape, right?
it's not impossible, but to become an "alternative" party to the dominant party, it takes a leader who is able to rally his world.
pspp is invisible and completely uninteresting. he's going to stay there at least until the next loss and from what i understand he plans to hang on for the long haul. if he resigns, there are not many star candidates left to run for leader and those of quality will not want to do so until they are out of the bottomless. becoming leader of the pq is ride or die. nobody in their right mind wants to end their career with this.
also, the pandemic gave the caq outrageously visibility, and the other parties had to be creative to make themselves heard. gnd did well, anglade did relatively well too. pspp was completely invisible. i find it hard to imagine the pendulum returning to him.
the problem with the pq is that we do not really know what it is apart from being a separatist.
on the left he was overtaken by qs, on the right by the caq.
unless something more serious than covid happens, the caq will win the next election.
the pq is the party with the most members too.
do not underestimate the possible transfer of votes from pq to qs as well. in the constituencies which elected solidarity, there was a transfer of strategic voting. considering the current poor posture of the pq, or the wrong trend, it would not be surprising if the supporters and undecided + of the pq migrate to qs.
it is very popular right now to say that pq is bad for whatever reason. this is the fashionable topo for the media.
it is indeed an opinion and not a fact ...
if we could have a real non-sovereignist left alternative, that would be so much for me.
mathematically, quebec is mostly non-sovereignist and the only parties available to us are the caq, the plq and la marde à duhaime. it is pathetic.
the problem with the pq is 1) that a lot of the media demonize independence and 2) the pq does not have the courage of its option. instead of loudly and proudly proclaiming their independence in an uninhibited way and responding to the media, they try to sneak in, they defend themselves from being independentists, they say things like "we will not do a referendum before 2 or 3 terms there. ! do not be afraid! "... and ironically they agree with the media by their actions, they act as if independence is indeed scary. so two things happened to the majority of the pq electorate:
1) those who thirst for independence have abandoned it. some to go to on, then to qs, others ... for no one else, really. they just stopped supporting the pq.
2) those who voted pq for the nationalist strand went to the caq, a party which is not associated with independence (therefore the federalist media have less hold) and has the courage of its positions.
i've been thinking about it for years: as long as the pq does not examine its conscience and take up the torch of independence in an uninhibited manner, they are dead. but no, at each election it's the same thing: we try new slogans, new ways of saying "we are separatists but do not be afraid, we will not do it!" and when that doesn't work they conclude "we have talked too much about independence, we will have to hide it and apologize for existing even more next time". election after election, and has been for twenty years.
caq votes come from the pq and the francophone liberals.
personally, even as a separatist who has never voted for a party other than the pq, i don't think they will return to power one day.
there are two possible scenarios in my opinion.
1. weak pq dies or joins qs for separatist vote
2. another separatist party is created and becomes more popular.
there is a paradox in the title of the post: if the opinion is unpopular, then the pq is in a bad position; if the pq is not in a bad position, the opinion must be popular 🙃
> the caq may put its feet in the dishes, and their voting intentions go down.
they've had their two feet flat for months and hit breakneck speeds skating on it, and their voting intention is still on top. we're really in deep trouble.
the advantage of the caq is that it occupies a place where it is really difficult for an opposing party to break through, the nationalist center-right.
qs is limited to urban cosmopolitan neighborhoods, students and others, and does not pierce at all in french-speaking suburbs or among families.
many quebecers have turned the page on the pq, without really knowing why, but the pq remains the main opponent of the caq in many french-speaking suburban counties and in the regions.
the plq no longer exists in the minds of the vast majority of francophones. the plq received votes from those who wanted to block the pq, the caq has just taken this place and the plq has nothing to offer to center-right francophones compared to the caq. it is a party of anglophones and "neo-quebecers".
the conservative party is only a threat to the caq in the quebec region and it would surprise me if it won a seat, it will just recover 5% of hard-right francophones, angry by the moderation of the caq in power .
you know how to control your denial. now release your anger.
pspp insists on being more populist than legault. if the electoral trend is maintained, you're not wrong.
the majority of the unconverted pq votes in the caq swing much more towards qs. unless there is an incredible nostalgic momentum, i hope people will go to qs rather than a pq plugged into the ventilator and surfing on the ideas of other parties to make people talk about him ... due for a new duality focused on social / economic rather than federal / sovereignist. let's say that i find it less important to mess around with the federal government when there is a possibility that millions of tons of concrete will be put in the river to save 50,000 people 15 minutes in the tank ...
my last vote was caq, if i do not vote caq, it will definitely not be pq in 4th for me
the fewer seats the pq and caq win, the better i am
** \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * attention !!!!! \ * \ * \ * \ * \ *** don't forget éric duhaime and his custodian party !!!!! 😅
the pq is in bad shape pcq no one believes in them anymore. when the essence of your part is to create a country but your main promise is; no referendum ……. nantel will have the best thing to shock this old part that disappears.
for those who have reached their quota of 3 free articles per month ...
* yes, it's cheap labor *
* chronicle / i have no doubts about the good intentions behind it, but asking people to volunteer in a private company to fund christmas baskets from a community organization is a bad idea. it's even problematic. *
* it's such a mess that i don't know where to start. *
* this is how the project was presented by the boss of wiptec, martin ball: “from november 26 to 29, for every six hours of volunteer work done within our team in sherbrooke, wiptec will offer the equivalent of a basket of l 'hope to the rock-guertin foundation to support families in need. "*
* in other words, to deliver christmas baskets to families in need, wiptec is asking for six hours of volunteer work on one of its biggest weekends of the year. *
* my first question: if a private company wishes to support a community organization, why do it only in return for volunteering within the company? if only two people agree to volunteer, will the company fund only two baskets? it's a strange commodification of generosity - if you can still call it generosity. *
* that's just another question, can we still call it a donation? for the person who would volunteer, no doubt that it is generous. but is wiptec's support still a donation if it is funded - or traded - for six hours of work? *
* in addition, let's say that several people naively accept the invitation and that wiptec finances 100 baskets, it is wiptec who will receive the benefits of these donations, not the volunteers! however, it is the volunteers who, obviously, will make these donations possible. *
* so in addition to financing baskets for disadvantaged families on the backs of volunteers, the company will collect the flowers, the witticisms, and perhaps even the tax credits, if ever these baskets are declared as such to the taxes. *
* in addition, there is a minimum of volunteering required to deliver a basket. one hour of volunteering is not worth anything, it is not enough. you have to give six for the company to fund one. it's not a bad day's work. in addition, will they have to have a certain output to “meet” expectations? do they have to pay for their lunch? *
* even most community organizations that rely on volunteerism do not require a minimum number of hours. they take all the help, young and old. *
* cheap labor *
* a basket like the one wiptec wants to "give" is worth $ 150 according to the rock-guertin organization. if we divide by the six hours of volunteer work required, we arrive at an hourly rate of $ 25 per hour. my little finger tells me that employees at wiptec cost them more than that. *
* on their site, we see that the company is looking for logistics technicians, business systems analysts, quality managers, it technicians, forklift drivers, among others. *
* according to indeed.com, a logistics technician earns an average of $ 23.72 per hour. computer technician, $ 25.21 per hour. a business analyst, $ 33.13 per hour. *
* except that this is not the real cost of a worker for a company. you have to add tax obligations, administrative costs and social benefits. and according to their website, there are several benefits at wiptec: dental, health and life insurance, shoes provided, performance bonus, pool and mini-putt tournaments. *
* it can be deduced that even at $ 25 an hour, or six hours of volunteering for a $ 150 basket, these people are probably cheaper than real staff. *
* the boss of wiptec denies resorting to cheap labor to manage to supply during the intense holiday season. "people who want work just have to give their name," he told my colleague, recalling that the company is unable to fill the many positions posted. *
* that may not be the intention, but we come back to it anyway. giving tasks to people who are less well paid than the usual staff, that's pretty much the definition of cheap labor. *
* and coincidentally, this volunteering is offered during one of the most intense weekends of the company year, if not the most intense. *
* i am quoting the site educaloi.qc.ca, which popularizes quebec laws. “the law obliges employers to remunerate any work performed by their employees. the only exceptions to paying below the minimum wage are for non-profit organizations with a social and community vocation, a legally recognized internship, a salary entirely on commission. *
* wiptec is far from being a non-profit organization. maybe nothing in the law prevents relatives from coming to help a business, but we are far from this situation here. the company is far from being in financial difficulty, it is even in continuous growth. *
* i sincerely sympathize with the company which cannot fill its positions. except that a company that is able to invest 250 million to build a new command center cannot ask people to volunteer for them. *
* if wiptec organized a fundraising activity outside of its activities, it would be completely different. but there, she asks people, strangers, to come and give them a hand, on a voluntary basis, to get through their holiday rush. volunteering won't really help underprivileged families, it will just serve wiptec. *
* there is something indecent about this. *
* wiptec can still catch up. by canceling the call for volunteers and making a donation directly to rock-guertin. without condition.*
in the false good idea category, it scores high that.
the worst part is really the tax credit they will collect ... the company will literally be reimbursed for these baskets in full by the government, it's worse than cheap labor, it's practically fraud. they use public funds to pay their employees in a deceptive way.
i was asked to pay $ 250 deposit for an exacto to work the 😂
i'm going to go do 6 hours of benelovat at moisson montreal instead ...
it's really taking advantage of volunteers who think they're doing well. always educate yourself before contributing / giving to a business, i learned this when i realized that village des valeurs was making a profit on donations ... even if, yes, they give back to the community, i would rather encourage renaissance, which is a non-profit organization.
it's shining a bit like the sun
wait a minute ... if you donate your time for the benefit of the business, will they give a basket?
i would really like to know how many people with 6 hours of time to donate to any organization are going to choose this option ??
you just have to be a cellar criss en esti to make this shift in the name of volunteering.
tax returns should subtract companies that ask for citizen contributions!
also the option to open the page in private browsing, it works for most of these payemurs
either he had the idea on his own and has not been validated by anyone, * simple mistake * as it happens to us every day.
either they have held several meetings, with several people, to come to think that it is the good idea.
worthy of an episode of the bougons
this is the reason why i always refuse to give at the cashier in the shops. i donate, and they collect the credit (reputation and tax).
no… they just won't pay tax on the value of the basket.
is it legal? wtf
it's the case. 
or 12 feet ladder
12ft.io
to bookmark it works 99 times out of 100
just block cookies for the domain. after even could need to do nothing.
indeed. my god is such rubbish. that deserves protesters in my opinion. it is morally indecent, it is insulting to the workers already there and it is theft if they take tax credits.
ah fuck off, it took me 25 years to forget that. i’m sure i’ve been singing this for another 25 years
edith: dragolimot ?? not dragonimot ??
i still remember the lyrics lol.
what annoys me the most about this girl is that you can take her as a model of success.
this disturbs me enormously, because i perceive a huge movement towards the standardization of this type of "business first" approach.
it is a mockery of the right to housing and a reflection of an era when speculation is imposed as a value superior to all the rest.
"for me, a new kitchen doesn't exceed $ 4000."
even the cheapest ikea kitchen will cost you around $ 8,000
the rich are completely out of touch with reality
my partner and i were recently looking to buy a house in montreal. we said to ourselves, thinking about what our parents had done at the time, why not look for a small plex, and live on the ground floor. in 4 months of research there was absolutely nothing on the market and we left empty-handed. seeing this girl there aspire to have 400-500 doors in the next few years, we quickly realize that people who buy for housing, and not as a speculative asset, well we no longer have our place in this market ...
hmmmmm .... am i the only one who sees organized crime basically that flash?
the girl turns 16 and gets approved to buy a 600,000 building at 21 ?! for an income building you have to put 20% down, present 3 years of salary and the same for the buildings after.
either she's full of shit and her parents have to face down payments or someone co-signs with her, or she has a source of income of around c $ 150,000 at the age of 21.
i call bull shit lol
what are the chances that his first building was given to him by his "well-to-do" parents?
there is only in real estate that you can have no concrete education, do nothing with your life and still manage to make yourself big sums by pissing off honest citizens who are only looking for housing. thx capitalism
this sentence from the article made me laugh:
> if she often works verbally, it is because "the human side is very important", she argues by email.
osti that it makes martin shkreli.
i wouldn't live with myself doing that.
a whole model of success / s
> “i wanted to start in real estate, but i had no money, no experience, *** no parents to help me ***. the only option i had was to find a building, ”she told ghislain larochelle, from immofacile, in an interview broadcast last october on youtube.
> in 2019, when she was only 21, she found this first building, in hochelaga-maisonneuve. according to what la presse has been able to trace of its purchase history, it is a building on rue adam, a bankruptcy takeover, that allows it to start.
hahaha yes you, a half-million building bought at 21 without the help of his parents. we believe in!
> in these interviews, ms. cauchefer claims to have purchased *** no less than 100 “doors” per year for 3 years ***. it also indicates that it is in the process of purchasing seven multi-unit buildings in the côte-des-neiges district.
> according to the count made by la presse, the name of pauline cauchefer is currently associated with four different companies, all owners of buildings. in total, through these various entities, it owns *** 14 buildings, comprising 66 units ***.
how are the doors counted here? how can you have 66 homes but> 100 doors? is she just lying, or let's say 4½ counts as 4-5 doors?
when are we going to tackle real estate speculators like this garbage? how does it help society to have companies that have 100+ doors and do the bare minimum and then sell it for big?
lol goes that makes me believe that it is really her who does all this. what is his father's job?
this is the worst example why new generations will ever be able to buy. we should nationalize housing! compensate the boomers (and others…), take back all their acquired surpluses, then the problem would be solved. not allowed to own more than 3 dwellings. or a 5-6 unit if you buy at 2. no business owner of rental units. etc etc ... we let everything go, we will pay in criss taleure!
it proves how imbeciles real estate coaches are.
how not to realize that what she says doesn't make any sense.
and we are supposed to pay thousands of dollars to take training courses from the same coaches who make a young lady in her twenties whose story is completely unbelievable!?!?
name ready.
ah-he-knows-how-to-be-you,
an example of success where she bought her first block at 24 clearly like a grown-up without the help of dad mom / s
since a little while, we often talk about investments to make money: purchase of securities on the stock market, real estate, etc.
i don't like to talk about it, but my relatives like it. the other day i put my finger on why i didn't like it.
for example, my friends are investing in really ethically questionable stuff or going to do some selfish stuff, and when i lift it up, they say, "i'm in chalice, i want to make some cash."
it's never anything that has the magnitude of what this woman does, but it still proves that in our society, often, the choice that pays off is to act like a bad person.
she doesn't do a new kitchen ..... she changes the cabinet doors and the handles .....
its "renovations" must be purely aesthetic worse the structural problems (mold and others) are just hidden under the paint .....
you have to remember françois lambert who lectured people on the grocery store ...
thank you but fuck you sir 8 ferrari
yet they are the first to come out with realistic arguments. the expression “economic reality”, for example, has always made me skeptical, especially since it is a relatively recent concept.
well, he has stock on the market but it's going to cost you dearly.
it did not start yesterday that teens kids with condoms, especially when they are given tiny ones all over the place.
what do you mean by lowercase? - \ _ \ _-
yeah, ain't no worse mayoche boyfriend.
have you ever seen your seed bend in pain and borderline turn purple for lack of circulation? me yes before knowing that it took me another format.
r/bigdickproblems 😅
the circle that turns red around the seed and that remains 1-2 hours later is not pleasant
do not -__-
this too.
ah, random spending targeted just before the elections after a couple of scandals, who would have believed it
fight inflation by printing money ...
tell me that you are more interested in your re-election than in long-term solutions without telling me that you are more interested in your re-election than in long-term solutions
it will give a serious boost to all those families whose monthly budget was $ 16 to swing.
and then it's a good measure to send a check just once, it's not like inflation is cumulative from year to year.
the end of the article is of interest to young people:
> ** new scholarship program for certain programs **
> quebec is also investing $ 1.7 billion in a new incentive scholarship program to increase college and university graduation in disciplines that lead to sectors of activity suffering from a labor shortage. of work.
> they will be paid to students who enroll in targeted programs in the health and social services, education, childcare, engineering and information technology sectors.
> the scholarships, which will be paid after each successful full-time session, could eventually reach $ 9,000 for a three-year college program and $ 15,000 or $ 20,000 for a university program, depending on whether it lasts three or four years .
> all quebec students enrolled in the targeted programs will be eligible for these scholarships, including those who have already completed part of their schooling, starting in the fall session of 2022.
with my girlfriend we pay more than 100,000 taxes per year to have no basic service. our newly born baby girl? not possible to have a doctor because we either, not possible to have a subsidized daycare because there is no room. it is not possible to have a reduction on private daycare centers because we are making too much money. it is not possible to pay so much money to have so few basic services. where is the money going for real?
woouuuaaaoouu 200 dollars! but what are we going to do with all this money?
what are the criteria to have access to that?
well it's a bit like saying: i hope when i retire in 45 years i will receive the check for $ 400 that they announced… the answer is no.
couldn't this 700 million have been used to settle the unlimited general strike in a childcare center?
what surprises me is that the bs, federal and quebec benefits and unemployment do not increase with inflation.
as long as there is fake money printed, why not increase it by a few%?
they should focus on reducing taxes instead ... quebec is one of the most taxed provinces in canada.
my guy wants to go to teaching, but he's just in secondary 3. i imagine that the scholarship will no longer exist in the…
an unveiled electoral giveaway that commits the government to nothing more than a small 1-time payment. i hope that the poor will understand that a small $ 200 does not in any way oblige you to vote for these profiteers ... and that this series of checks will not help society in the medium or long term, nor replace sustainable social measures. .
quebec cannot print money
then it's not like the goal is to fight inflation, just to avoid starving some people who live on $ 10 a month at the end of each month, while waiting for things to recover (since 'we expect a return to the inflation rate that we usually target for 2022)
that said, i think it looks a lot like a tactic to make the populace forget some scandals.
[deleted]
the list of targeted programs could be interesting
in subsidies to multinationals and in electoral giveaways like a 10-15 billion tunnel. worse, 50% of them go to the bureaucratic layers of the health system.
to clarify, i don't mind paying so much tax per se. but i would still like at least to be able to benefit from basic services such as health, especially for my daughter. i'm not even talking about the damn infrastructure or the rest.
i lived in ontario, i was paying $ 15k less in taxes per year than when i returned to quebec for the same salary and had much better basic services.
why do we accept to let ourselves be bullshit so much?
you are in the group of people who are too busy to complain. you are entitled to nothing. : /
for those who do not want to calculate it, for 2021 it corresponds to a taxable family income of at least $ 250,000 (without any deductible) for a single income, for two people with equal income it is more around $ 300,000 (minimum, without deduction).
but otherwise, indeed, the situation with the accessibility of family physicians is ridiculous.
instead of sending $ 200 ti checks to everyone, why not pay early childhood educators reasonable salaries?
check bin the caq to say that it is half a quebec lévis tunnel ...
the caq produces a lower deficit than they expected and congratulates you on doing a good job! good spin for the elections.
the day after the elections: "the previous government left us with a hidden deficit of 640 billion dollars, we must cancel all the social measures promised in our electoral program".
the day before the elections: "we had poorly estimated the deficit, we took the opportunity to invest 640 billion dollars ~~ in electoral sweets ~~ in social measures".
the funny thing is that we would have to say thank you as if this money was not coming straight out of everyone's pockets.
they're going to use that as a justification for funding the tunnel. check ben.
yes, but just online.
there are things that i postpone the purchase for a bottle, if it falls on the discount i pick it up. otherwise blah it's not serious.
never in 100 years
nope, i prefer shopping in early january when the world is exhausted from spending.
no. i categorically refuse to encourage black friday.
no, i categorically boycott black friday. this day represents everything that is wrong in our society. we need degrowth, and black friday encourages overconsumption and harsh working conditions.
in life all you need is chicken breast and rice
you should boycott black friday they make the world work 4 times more without compensation
i wait for the christmas markets to encourage local ideally. alpaca socks ... alcohol from qc ... etc we will see.
already done. soda stream cheap at $ 50 to bring a job. $ 2 silicone cookie sheet "sheet".
it will pay for itself on your own.
i am still reviewing my cell contract at this time. last year the deals were boff but this year it doesn't seem worse to me.
no. anyway i'm working.
it’s me who’s crazy.
i find that the sales are good so you can save my money
what i had to buy i already did online this week with the pre-discounts! not likely to go in person on friday but maybe check out leftover specials later on the weekend.
i was waiting to pay myself a one year subscription to a site (40% off) and i told my father to order my kettle (christmas present) on ricardo's site right away to have the 15th % haha!
yes, but only to remake my davids tea refill over the weekend. i buy 2-3 times a year, and this weekend is one of them.
but to go to the stores? fuck no.
already bought and picked up my games yesterday.
imagine standing in line
same thing, i have a list of things that i will not have the choice to buy sooner or later so i keep an eye open but otherwise blah, it can wait for the sales after christmas!
on the one hand, i'm anti-consumption, but when you don't have the choice, you might as well buy at a discount ...
and that the real specials are here!
inb4 the comments which say "you see ?? it is useless to make efforts in quebec, tsé in china they have plenty of coal power stations anyway and it is in brazil the worst deforestation"
frankly, the generation of co2 by the use of heating of buildings is already taken into account at the level of power stations. is it counted twice?
when is free energy? ...
to see the sea freight so low, it's really surprising to me.
most boats do not use highly distilled and refined gasoline, like we put in our cars. no, the big cargo ships take the cheap leftovers from the refineries and that's what they burn. it is much more polluting and combustion produces much more junk than just co2.
to
there's omer on line 3, and there's not looking happy !!!
worse a minister who will say that there is no photo of a tunnel ...
many places heat directly with natural gas because electricity is too expensive
the days when power plants will run gnu / linux.
it's not surprising at all, this infographic only takes into account that greenhouse gases and junk food from boats are not greenhouse gases (rather slightly the opposite even for sulfur).
they are dangerous to health, however, hence the ban on using the worst fuel near certain coasts.
(sorry i don't understand: p maybe i missed a past news haha)
it's true, i had forgotten.
* "when it comes to infrastructure of this nature, environmental assessments are more aimed at mitigating negative environmental impacts, and not at questioning the infrastructure, and not with a view to preventing its construction, ”said the minister of the environment on tuesday *
[
man i hadn't finished my coffee i hadn't lit that you were talking about the image, i'm a little ashamed lol
"we're going to do the tunnel without the federal government" isn't the federal government supposed to pay half like?
if you read the right way between the lines, and if my crystal ball still works: the 3rd link is an unnamed absurdity, although they promised it in the elections, those who know how to think about the caq know it.
probably that they will * arrange * for the federal government to block it like that, they will release the "it's the federal government, it's not us", which will get them out of this mess, and at the same time give money. water at the mill of the independence debate "if we were a country, we could have made the third link".
it is not for nothing that our dear pm is starting to talk about the nordics.
i don't know if they will go so far as to say that we will have to choose between the nordics and the 3rd link, but given that we are now, anything is possible.
i agree with you
they know very well, from the beginning that it will not happen ... despite this they spend millions unnecessarily on the project
because technically they are not gambling advertisements. note it is always the .net version that is on the ads. this version has no gambling. except that the company that does the advertising knows very well that a large part will just type pokerstars / bet99 on google, and the .com version will be first / clicked.
on sports stations, it's absolutely hellish!
not only do these ads make the pass for using domain names like ".net" to go along with their disclaimer of "this is not a gaming site", but they have made georges st-pierre a lot less cool by overexposing it in this way.
if you want to play online, please get cross-haired locally and use espace-jeux - part of it goes back to the government, rather than encouraging foreign interests.
**j a c k p o t**
**m e g a**
**m o o l a h**
i would add to that the loan announcements.
\ - "jean, do you look sad?"
\ - "my dishwasher is broken and i don't have 500 piastres"
\ - "have you thought of loan at a discount? you can lend you $ 500 to $ 1500 in 24 hours without a credit check"
\ - "oh wow loan at a discount, i'll go right away .... finally finished hand washing all my dishes"
... pu able ... people take a $ 500 loan when they're already strangled with debt, and it's going to cost them double.
or during the holidays, it will be the same but with the "borrow money, spoil your children"
those ads shouldn't exist there.
[deleted]
technically, it still seems illegal. there was an article in la presse this summer talking about bet99.com
if memory serves, it indicated that justice was not paying attention at all for lack of reasons. i may be completely in the field.
i gamble at times in the nba and i love the hobby. however, i find it really weird to promote it. it is one of the addictions with the worst repercussions. it is strange and in disbelief.
stéphanie grammond summed up the case in la presse in june
defeat virtual casinos: 
the problem is that the sites that are advertised are not gambling sites. it's free gaming sites with blogs and nonsense. for example, bet99.net is free play. but bet99.com, which is not mentioned in the ad, it is the gambling site.
this is how they get around the rules ...
it is made these ads are on the applications games for teenagers .. the most cringe is the one with the card games where you earn money online with pictures of people having a big czech.
i know a man who got so addicted that he shut down his business and thought he was going to win the jackpot.
i like it me to hear the hoff sing in my tv :(
slot machine announcements on facebook allowed the game of thrones license to survive.
do you prefer the chip reverse home mortgage ad instead?
on another note, ozempic, i am no longer able to do that either!
every time i look at the tivi, i understand why it's been months since i opened it.
you're right
so alright, someone who listens to sports and who is able to bet99
i've honestly lost a little respect for gsp since every time we see him, or if you go to his twitter account it's like he's become a drone in the service of bet99.
i tell myself the same thing with cigarettes; why go to so much effort so that people don't smoke or quit while continuing to sell it everywhere?
it's the same answer as with games of chance: it pays off for the government.
i have an older friend, like 50, who went on facebook, saw a casino ad, gambled, won a bit and got hooked. she had never gambled in her life and lost a lot of $$$ afterwards. there would surely be why to sue facebook.
despite the increase in cases in recent weeks, i'm not really worried. hospitalizations remain low and that is what matters most.
i'm just a little afraid that legault is going to fail again despite everything.
902 cases, it's still 16 times less worse than in austria
when do we hit 1000?
(really not that bad at this point, with the vaccination rate, but there are matantes that will start to fail ... merry christmas!)
> in the health network, there is nevertheless a slight decrease in hospitalization, ie 20 new admissions and 21 discharges. currently, 210 patients remain hospitalized in connection with covid-19, including 45 in intensive care, a drop of one case in 24 hours there too.
[# covid19 - screening of unvaccinated healthcare workers: as of nov 24, 376 people (+47 from last week) have refused screening tests and are suspended without pay.] (
oupeilale
are they unvaccinated?
according to doc mailloux, we do not have to worry because he says that it is the young people who are sicker because their quebecois parents do not know how to love them, and it will happen in a few months when the affected young people will grow old.
it's rising! it's boring! here is my contribution / reaction to the daily figures.
they wake up when to open the 3rd dose to those who want it. waiting time… and it will suddenly wake up urgently as always.
\ * grab the popcorn \ *
8.5 millions
> i'm just a little afraid that legault is going to fail again despite everything.
the hospis will remain low because for the moment the great part of the new cases are in the 0-19 years (+ - 43%).
and its total population is roughly equal to that of quebec ... ouch.
i am really happy to be here.
as long as our chief monuncle does not condone ...
> matantes which will start to fail
josée legault and our national denise must be no worse on the edge.
comments on twitter are scary
[removed]
now this is covidracing!
gone are the days when a work (film, series, books) is judged by its quality. today what matters is diversity! the evil white men on the cover of the book must be destroyed !.
it's pathetic limit it's racism against white people in a way. and who will be happy? again the twitter wokes who complain about anything. my milk that i take in the morning is you too white for them?
> to meet the needs of the 72 libraries she manages, librarian lyne rajotte decided four years ago “to buy 100% of children's books where a child of diversity appears. this book, we acquire it, good or not. we enter 100% of what is non-white in novelties in our libraries. and we have an even bigger budget than what we find on the market. we never manage to empty our envelope ”.
> is there a market that quebec publishing cannot capture?
here we are, we buy 100% of what is non-white and we have such a large budget that we cannot spend it all.
well, beyond the delusional drifts of the new woke theocracy, there is a business opportunity here. interested in writing a children's book? this is your chance. the book doesn't really have to be good.
"the wokes are in your head they don't exist"
if this news surprises you ... you weren't paying attention. it's been since at least 2012 that i realized that this movement was present and gaining strength and influence. the "whites" (and i hate this category which is completely unsuited to the reality of quebec where the tensions historically are between two linguistic communities which are both "white") are made undesirable for the advocates of multiculturalism. by doing so, they risk causing what should be avoided at all costs, the emergence of a "white" identity in the population and promote racial reasoning.
> to meet the needs of the 72 libraries she manages, librarian lyne rajotte decided four years ago “to buy 100% of children's books where a child of diversity appears. this book, we acquire it, good or not. we enter 100% of what is non-white in novelties in our libraries. "
do they care about the content?
they just want the english textbooks with 100% diversity then?
if there is a blank on the cover and i imagine it black while reading and vice versa?
tse-tse find bugs where there aren't any
basically, we don't give a damn about the content as long as the cover is nice ...
it's a shame, because they miss out on a lot of the best children's writers by doing this.
getting pocket books can't help a cause. putting shit on a pedestal is the best way to get him contempt.
i can't wait to change our definition of diversity. i'm sure there are plenty of good children's books written in spanish, german, polish, russian, arabic, dutch ... our fight is not color or post-slavery. is the language. it is through it that we open up to other universes.
but "children must recognize themselves in what they read" ... yes, even when we touch universality, even when our heroes have duckbills and superpowers, we need to find each other. in the stories we tell ourselves. we still need to have criteria that make sense and that speak about real things. how many times have our creators tried to talk about ourselves and we just couldn't find each other?
there are tensions between non-natives and their host land that cannot be transmitted by just any pen. there are realities that a native writer cannot express just by changing the color of his characters. does a child born elsewhere especially need to be reminded of their difference or to recognize themselves in their new country? i don't have any answers, but it just seems so awkward to try to tick boxes that meet superficial criteria.
are you also white the paper of the books?
here she is hired for what exactly if her judgment is no longer part of her decision-making process?
there is also a non-racial diversity which is increasingly represented in children's literature.
bubble wrap by simon boulerice and le petit astronaute by jean-paul eid are two excellent examples. we talk about hemophilia in the first and life with a brother with a severe physical disability in the second.
it's also diversity
quebec seems to have an extremely different mentality from the current government and canada.
do quebecers want independence more than in previous years or not? (i am french)
just to reissue the little prince with a dark-skinned child on the cover. it's gonna sell like hot cakes.
yep.
business opportunity only for people belonging to a visible minority, because one of the so-called "delusional drifts of the new woke theocracy" is precisely that those belonging to the majority do not have the right to produce art that features a person belonging to a minority. it is a form of cultural appropriation, and we have seen that it can be punished by a rather brutal cancellation.
"there are 100% scientific and natural explanations that can easily explain why certain lyrics have changed in the national anthem, why the statue of john a macdonald has been vandalized, why the montreal city council and the games of the ch are in unceded mohawk territories ... like prevailing winds, magnetic fields, tectonic plates, or climate change, it's not always necessary to have recourse to invisible wokes that don't exist in quebec, frankly. "
by this point the inclusives are going to have created the imaginary monster they were fighting and i don't see things slowing down.
ironic.
since 2003 i have been studying this movement.
i spoke about it to my entourage and my colleagues, and until 2020 nobody believed me. they all believed me to be a crackpot.
finally they admit that i was right.
the woke movement is racist, sexist and extremely toxic. it is not a progressive movement, it is a regressive movement that divides us all.
to my they remade their marketing image and no straight white man appears. but of course, there is no such thing as woke. you are at a disadvantage to be white in a country with 70-80% white.
here we are big consumers of youth books. there are so many scrapbooks in this category that it annoys me a bit that they won't even filter a little ... in the first reading genre, sometimes we wonder how it is to be published, and although there is good books that promote cultural diversity, there are also some very bad ones, with very bad french. there are books so poorly written that even we parents have a hard time reading… a bit daunting for news.
curfew when?
> former model student, germany is currently facing its strongest wave of infection since the start of the pandemic.
> many hospitals are overwhelmed, as are the casket makers.
> slovakia has just entered into almost total containment for the next two weeks.
> "this wave is much more intense than the others", admits a slovak doctor.
> france is not to be outdone.
> while the number of infections has tripled in two weeks in the country, the government is now opening the third dose to all adults, five months after their second.
you shouldn't be afraid, but you should also keep your eyes open. our cases have started to rise slowly so we will have to see if its continues to rise and if the hospi follow or not with their "lag" that we have seen with each wave.
"if necessary, go have a 6th"!
curfew gives nothing, it's more an increase in health measures such as returning to work at home if possible.
we should have started to prepare when it was around 500 ca but the government and the people prefer to sleep and pretend it is at the end of the covid.
we seem to be sleeping on the switch for the third dose in quebec. we have the advantage that there are still relatively few people who are 6 months past their second dose but soon that will no longer be the case .. could we not be proactive and take the lead in giving the boosters?
not really. we are already giving it to those 70 and over. for the general population, the strategy of stretching the 2nd dose to give more than the 1st is paying off at the moment. the effectiveness of the vaccine is much higher after 6 months when we space the doses as we did.
in addition, several countries in europe have 85-90% vaccination in the elderly. here we have 95-100%. we are really not in the same situation, we must stop always wanting to compare ourselves.
experts said this summer with the delta it took 90% vaccination to be effective. almost no one succeeded, but we did.
[deleted]
there are many other vaccines that require 3 doses, it is not exceptional that the one for covid too. the studies on the decrease in efficacy after 5 or 6 months, and the gains from the 3rd dose, are fairly clear.
its good. it doesn't compare to newfoundland fish and chips, but it's better than the frozen fish from the grocery store that i was served at a restaurant in quebec this fall.
i really liked it. the special sauce, for example, i found it not very good. the portion of fish is also a bit small in my opinion. 7/10
saint-hubert is expensive waste.
surprising for what i thought it was going to be.
take another if you're really hungry but it breaks the monotony of st-hub chicken from time to time
not as good as their frozen tourtiere
in any case, the one at casa grecque is really shit.
for good fish n chips in montérégie / south shore you have to go to capitaine pouf
worse the fried chicken him? i saw an ad this week
when i tried it i was surprised. the breading of the fish stayed crisp throughout and the fish itself was good too. it sure has nothing to do with what i ate in london, but for a chain, it was hard to beat.
you have to be frozen in a tabarnac to eat ~~ mustard sandwiches ~~ fish in a chicken restaurant.
are you a sauce type or a chicken type?
since saint hubert is more quebecois i have not set foot there.
interesting! thank you
isn't that frozen like anything that comes out of cara?
i think they missed an opportunity to serve it with maple sauce, maybe it would have been more successful.
good to know, thank you!
it's literally managing like a mcdonald's for having worked at both.
do you ever go anywhere other than st hub?
cool! thank you
i bought the frozen veggie tourtière (not yet tasted) and there are potatoes on the photo so the saguenéens are in your teeth
crispy meat pie
or, another solution would be to buy second hand books. often you can find some that look really new! :)
or offer a (free) library card. lol.
there is no shortage of books, just abusive readers
also: audiobooks and / or e-readers?
what are there book shortages?
i'm a heavy reader and have always managed to get the books i want, when i want
we have a tradition with my guy where a little before christmas we put 25 books in a pocket and he picks one a day ... a kind of pocket of advent books.
in short, we buy used books and they are great. it is clear that we could not buy 25 books at regular price for that.
what a sad story ... i will simply copy and paste the resources put on the tva site.
quebec suicide prevention line
• www.aqps.info 
• 1-866-appelle (277-3553)
kids help phone
• www.jeunessejecoute.ca 
• 1-800-668-6868    
tel-youth
• www.teljeunes.com 
• 1-800-263-2266
after such a long delay without anything concrete, i suspected that the outcome would not be happy but it breaks my heart anyway for the parents and the family… how sad.
what sad news in this gloomy day. take care of yourself and enjoy those around you.
quebec association for suicide prevention:
1 866 call
who's the rest of the toilet brush juice that's negating me here?
so sad news her :( may she rest in peace ❤️
rest in peace 😢
cool story bro
in the "we don't care" category, this post is pretty deep in there
unmatched
me down the balls wesh
which town ? you should specify it for better answers - or answers at all!
go walk all over the mountain... or angrignon park in lasalle... go see the rapids park...
thank you very much for your efforts in french! i also recommend mont-royal, you can go up to the chalet and the view is superb
the city, let's see, berthierville.
thanks for the ideas.
ha! sorry i thought this was the sub for la ville de quebec. it's the city. thank you.
r/quebeccity
i find the idea that port-aux-basques is the french-speaking capital of the dubious island. basques settled there on a seasonal basis long before a french colony was founded in the region. the french governor settled in plaisance in the southeast of the island, not in port-aux-basques.
details: 
i highly recommend visiting the area, it is absolutely beautiful.
> the oldest canadian city
source siouplait? it seems to me that st-john dates from 1497 ... it's not clear pab was founded when exactly ...
funny that i'm sending a package there today!
don't worry. even with children, people will come and see us languishing in chslds. i am the only one of the grandchildren to go see my grandmother and take her out to a restaurant with my mother. after that will fight for the inheritance.
honestly, as a father, i understand your point, but the outlook on life changes drastically with fatherhood.
i might be tired and i don't even have the time to * gamer * anymore, but i'm happy and fulfilled.
i play escape from tarkov with my children as a team. my college degrees didn't create in me an ounce of the happiness that my youngest (not young pantoute) brought me by not scoping a guy probably a third / quarter my age 130 yards down interchange.
just for that, i did not waste my time.
i think that an opinion like the other is valid. who am i to tell you that you should have children?
do what makes you happy.
édith cochrane: indeed, the last 2 years have not been easy. but there are good sides too. anyway. me, i'm happy. toé too.
hey boy, you're not the only one. i have lived alone for a few years and i savor these moments of peace. my life may be flatter, but when i look at my two sisters who have come close to divorce during confinement due to child management, i tell myself it's better lol.
i am just being judged for that by my family and even my office colleagues, but we only have one life to live and i chose from the past as a finished egotist without responsibility.
42 years old, no children
forget the kids, buy a motorbike.
i had pleasure before the children, zing!
small question: do you and your colleagues live in the suburbs or in the city? i ask because i see a big difference in the energy level and the time available for oneself between the people around me in the city (more time) vs in the suburbs (less time).
it always has been, but the pandemic seems to have exacerbated these differences around me.
honestly from my side covid has been easy and relaxing.
true
edit: forget about the cpe strike! solidarity with the workers on the other hand, it's quite a job!
to each his own opinions
maybe it's because my youngest is 13, but covid hasn't affected us too much honestly. the most difficult was the lack of sport (hockey for my guy and basketball for my 16 year old).
but thanks to covid and lockdown we've spent a lot more time together full-time than ever before and it's made us even more tightly knit.
i understand what you mean.
for my part, i find that our modern life makes having children very complicated unnecessarily. it's not bad that turns me off. not to mention the world they would grow up in ...
being a childfree myself, it took me a while to also find a life partner who shared this idea. we are going to spoil ourselves and be the uncle and the aunt who helps out. but having a kid is a responsibility i don't wanna have
in the end, always better to regret not having had children than to regret having had them, right?
no. you are not alone. it's been two years since i heard my colleagues complaining about their children about complications from covid. i am not unhappy to have made this choice.
there is nothing in life that relieves me more than telling me that i will never live through pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum.
it's not selfish, you assume your choice and being childless is better than having a child and not taking care of it and giving it the love it deserves because you don't want it.
i am what you might call aggressively childfree. i will never hurt the children there hahaha, i adore my goddaughter and i'm good with them, but i don't mind when the subject comes up (edith: the subject being to be treated as selfish because i do not want), to say that i find it more selfish to have it than not to have it, especially in 2022. and there i am going to attract the lightning of the parents, but why put on earth a person of more, when are there many children already on earth who need a family? if i wanted to, i would clearly adopt.
worse the argument that "nobody will take care of you / come see you later" is bullshit, there are lots of parents who are tamed in a chsld and the children come to visit them once a month or not all. and it's also selfish to expect your kids to look after you later. it is extremely hard for the child, i have lived it. so no, you're not alone!
i already have two parents to take care of, i don't want children. thank you.
there's nothing that turns me off more than parent "recruiters". no chalice, i don't want children, no, it's not because i don't like children and that "everything is different when it's yours, you'll see !!", i just don't need in my life! the "when are you going to have kids ??" every time you talk to a couple of friends when you're in a relationship it's tiring in ordeal, your chalice eye.
well done, congratulations. we are proud of you
it seems to me that the ratio of time potentially spent in prison vs the concrete effect of the action is really not well calculated on this.
it must be conspiracies ...
not obligatory, no. on the other hand, i always left a 10 or a 20 to the guy who breaks his ass to assemble me a piece of furniture or an electro on the 3rd floor in a spiral staircase because it would royally piss me off to do it myself. but everyone is free
nope. never tiped no furniture delivery service.
never a tip for that.
on the other hand, i always offer a glass of water or a coffee.
furniture delivery: no
movers: yes
5 piasses, good bye.
it depends on the complexity of the maneuver. if it's done in two minutes, i don't leave a tip.
if it's complicated, or very physical, then yes.
you don't have to, no. it is just for the salaries considered 'tip' that it is a bit of a dog not to do it. i do it outside of that anyway sometimes, but it's usually because i guess i'm still going to have to do with the person and make sure i get good service in the future.
good, thank you all.
this is the correct answer.
you don't have to but the delivery men are paid the same salary no matter what they do so if you know that you are a "difficult case" (like a third step in the elevator in a spiral staircase), it is always valiant to give a little something.
exactly that. you can leave absolutely nothing if you want. but if you are in a 2-3 without elevator, give them a few things out of "compassion".
$ 10 tip per floor up is the norm in the industry.
some places change more when you are on the 2nd or 3rd floor.
the companies charge more, but the guys don't get a penny more. they charge more because they calculate more time
source: i have already delivered furniture
so there seems to be a lot of people on strike these days.
i work on (in fact) the pierre-laporte bridge, and the engineers' means of pressure have never borne fruit. the project is too big to be able to stop or delay it in any way possible. if they want to bend the employer, they must target other sites.
weird han? it even looks like most of them have the same employer ...
y want to start their christmas vacation earlier
strange
for real? do you have a clue?
i prefer to wait 8 weeks since the best efficiency of the delay has been proven.
if a child receives the 1st dose this week, and the 2nd dose 3 weeks later, the family can travel for 2 weeks during the holidays and avoid quarantine of the child on return (minimum 2 weeks after the 2nd dose).
this situation represents eternal hell for cyclists because of the ineptitude of cities that do not know one of the fundamental rules of road cycling, anywhere, in the country or in the city: as the bicycle is a vehicle, it must always ride in the same direction as traffic. here the poop rolls against the grain, on the wrong side. big confusion: as the light is green for him as for automobile traffic, he can, in theory, continue without even slowing down but the motorist also has the green light and as it is not his habit to see coming from traffic in the opposite direction, as the cyclist does, he risks not seeing the cyclist and not yielding to him the right of way. boom! in short, personally, as i have a very developed instinct for self-preservation, i never put myself in the situation where a cyclist is traveling against the current on a two-way cycle path.
if it's a sidewalk, the bike is no business there.
but if it is a cycle path, the bike has priority, because it does not change direction.
the bike. the car never has priority * even if the others are wrong *.
it's pretty simple when you follow the following rules:
- something smaller than you has priority, with the exception of the truck: you must never get caught in its blind spot
- those who continue straight ahead have priority
it would be a lot easier if the bike was in the road on the correct side of the traffic.
i have the impression that there is a lack of specific signage for the cycle path (stop / give way / traffic lights).
but it seems to be a specific montreal problem and the philosophy (which i personally find really dangerous) to have a pedestrian light at the same time as a green light for cars. in quebec you would either have a red light for all lanes and pedestrians / cyclists who pass exclusively, or a pedestrian light but the car would not have its arrow to turn. in these cases it is quite a clean cut, the car's fault as it turns illegally.
but in this case, if the cyclist gets hit, he could rightly blame the imo car, but the car could rightly blame the intersection of marde with insufficient city signals as well.
it depends, is it a ccm or specialized bike?
the bike necessarily has a stop
the right turn has priority over the straight ahead
exactly there should rather be a real protected intersection as in the netherlands. for more details watch the videos of the channel "not just bikes".
they try to add a cycle lane without changing the intersection which makes it very dangerous.
i am not sure i am following you when you say that the motorist is not used to seeing oncoming traffic coming…?
> inspired by the intersection of maricourt and st-hubert, in saint-hubert
i cycle there very regularly and [no, there isn't] ( ! 3m6! 1e1! 3m4! 1sawmyqu6hox_iujve26gn-a! 2e0! 7i16384! 8i8192).
that said, the pedestrian light to cross with the cycle path only comes on if you request it by pressing on the piton. so already there you have a damn good idea that if the pedestrian light is not 100% red, it is because the users of the cycle path still have priority to cross. otherwise, the fire in question is useless ...
where?
absolutely. as if a cycle path were the same as a sidewalk! for cities, a cyclist is a pedestrian on two wheels.
in the same way as him. when you turn right at an intersection, to see if it is coming from traffic, you look to the left not to the right.
in the scenario of this post, the cyclist is coming to the right.
one of the interesting things about the intersection in question, one of the lenses of the pedestrian light is shaped like a bicycle, as if it were a bicycle light, but was deactivated a long time ago because a light for cyclist must have 3 colored lenses (red, yellow and green) and cannot be combined with a pedestrian light.
i contacted the city about the fact that the arrangement is not clear and honestly dangerous, there must be, and i quote, a
> complete upgrading of this intersection \ [which \] was planned in the three-year immobilization program for the years 2020-2021.
>  
> this update will include a new sequence of phases and a revision of the timings, in addition to the signage and markings which will be updated.
\ -sf traffic, transport and active mobility division, direction du génie, on behalf of the city of longueuil, july 29, 2019
being on the bike path i almost got hit several times by cars which see a red hand flashing and which believe that it means that it is equivalent to a red light for everything that is not a car so full throttle ! 🙃
this symbol means there are less than 10 seconds to cross and is intended for pedestrians on the crosswalk as they move more slowly. no link with cyclists and other users who share the street.
oooh, interesting!
several years ago they were talking about fencing the railroad as is the case on the other side of montée st-hubert. and now that they've finally built something on the land of the old gas station, maybe something will happen when they revamp the intersection as well ...
normand l'amour - i am the most
normand l'amour - the little finch
normand l'amour - in the kitchen
normand l'amour - wow! wow!
normand l'amour - the drones
normand l'amour - the ping-pong ball
normand l'amour - y'a lachait pas (the door handle)
normand l'amour - in the years
normand l'amour - all black
normand l'amour - she looked at him
1. the dance of the ducks, nathalie simard
2. a dove, céline dion
3. lavez-lavez, martine st-clair
4. midnight chrétien, fernand gignac
5. turn the page, rené and nathalie simard
6. achy breaky dance, stef carse
7. all the boys and girls my age, michèle richard
8. the pope of rap, daniel lavoie
9. splish splash, caesar and the romans
and the best of all time:
10. oh canada
1. darude - sandstorm
2. darude - sandstorm
3. darude - sandstorm
4. darude - sandstorm
5. darude - sandstorm
6. darude - sandstorm
7. darude - sandstorm
8. darude - sandstorm
9. darude - sandstorm
10. darude - sandstorm
1. lingus - snarky puppy
2. the general - dispatch
3. boys in the band - gentle giant
4. while my guitar gently weeps - the jeff healy band
5. public enemy - blank manuskript
6. blindinght light show / moonchild - triumph
7. fool's opening - supertramp
8. dancing in the moonlight - king harvest
9. ice dragon - malajube
10. the moon is crying - okoumé
various styles, in no particular order:
1 - big swifty - frank zappa (la version de make a jazz noise here)
2 - we will fall together - streetlight manifesto
3 - rum, women - bodh'akhtan
4 - la blanche hermine - gilles servat
5 - lament to be buried at the beach of set - georges brassens
6 - when i have wind in my head - boris vian
7 - prejudice - tim minchin
8 - moanin' - charles mingus
9 - la vie en rose - louis armstrong
10 - big country - béla fleck & the flecktones
unmade - thom yorke
all i need - radiohead 
no surprises - radiohead 
hyperballad - björk 
isobel - björk 
somebody to love - queen 
marie-noël - robert charlebois
elsewhere - marjo
life - our lady peace
4am - our lady peace
here is in a spotify playlist
1- touch ; daft punk
2- wish you were here ; pink floyd
3- brothers in arms ; dire straits
4- all along the watchtower ; jimi hendrix
5- disorder ; joy division
6- sick love ; rhcp
7- school ; supertramp
8- peg; steely dan
9- from funk; daft punk
10- climbing up the walls ; radiohead
colour haze - love
stoned jesus - i'm the mountain
coheed and cambria - delirium trigger
truckfighters - majestic
queens of the stone age -  give the mule what he wants
greenleaf - depth of the sun
monkey3 - icarus
karma to burn - fifty four
my sleeping karma - svaatanya
elder - dead roots stirring
1. young and con - saez
2. i don't give a fuck - didier super
3. 123456 - fitz and the tantrums 
4. nautical disaster - the tragically hip
5. lazy eye - silversun pickup 
6. what it takes - krezip
7. summertime sadness - within temptation (!pas lana del rey)
8.as she comes - black desire
9. age of panic - senser
10. moonlight - debussy
1- g.o.a.t - polyphia
2- wake me up - foals
3- take your pick - ice nine kills
4- god knows - knocked loose
5- forward! - battle
6- utopia - napoleon
7- we got the moves - eskimo callboy
8- butterfly - kmac2021
9- t.i.n.a. - enter shikari
10- vela, together we await the storm - the human abstract
oh, here are 10 suggestions in random order:
-continuer /knlo
-get out/jay scøtt
-lonely/ mike shabb
-stake/ zach zoya
-marathon/ jam
-1 / eman
-shake me down/ cage the elephant
-never as good as the first time/ sade
-i feel fantastic/ serena isioma
-civil war/ russ
good road! :) don't hesitate to come back with what you liked / didn't like!
1.	smashing pumpkins - 1979
2.	built to spill - carry the zero
3.	elliott smith - i figured you out
4.	silverchair - those thieving birds
5.	wilco - pieholden suite
6.	radiohead - life in a glasshouse
7.	the smiths - i dont owe you anything
8.	 mark lanegan - kimiko’s dream house
9.	she & him - it’s not for me to say
10. pains of being pure at heart - come saturday
1. gone tomorrow - 40 winks
2. earlier - alexandra stréliski
3. stay a while - the cactus channel
4. if i was a folkstar - the avalanches
5. in my head - tommy guerrero
6. practice - freddie gibbs
7. close to why - the parcels
8. you and me - marc rebillet
9. it's on you - pete rock & c.l. smooth
10. apollo - st. paul & the broken bones
i put my 10 liked tunes that i listen to the most these days on spotify, in no particular order and certainly not my favorite 10 of all time but i think it's quite diverse in styles
more quebec artists:
1. gab bouchard
2. matt holubowski
3. quebec redneck bluegrass project
4. jp "le pad" tremblay
5. daniel bélanger
6. philippe brach
7. louis-jean cormier
8. harmonium
9. the dashing cowboys
10. the roommates
there are quite a few quiet artists, but that's because during my homework i listen to this.
oh fun! i must have a couple of good songs in my spotify library of 5000+ songs (btw this is not a specific order, they are pretty much all equal in my eyes or rather my ears)
1. who's laughing now - durry
2. no children - the mountain goats
3. pillar of na - saintseneca
4. honeybee - steam powered giraffe
5. shadow - bearstronaut
6. one - hansom eli
7. tieduprightnow - parcels
8. eleanor rigby - cody fry (i know it's beatles, but this arrangement is excellent)
9. keep moving - jungle
10. sweetie little jean - cage the elephant
1. trainwreck 1979 - death from above 1979
2. joker and the thief - wolfmother
3. lay down - priestess
4. hysteria - muse
5. highway star - deep purple
6. carry on wayward son - kansas
7. weapon of choice - black rebel mortocycle club
8. shoot the runner - kasabian
9. wolf like me - tv on the radio
10. redemption blues - audrey horne
1- sigur rós - sleep-g-angels
2- m83 - midnight souls still remain
3- beach house - days of candy
4- nekfeu - humanoid
5- elephant stone - i don't know
6- arcade fire - in the backseat
7- big thief - not
8- adrianne lenker- ingydar
9- radiohead - all i need
10- mashrou' leila - el hal romancy
i begin :
1. she's got a gun - kuuro
2. red stars - the birthday massacre
3. make a wish - disturbed but geil
4. hellbent (feat. snowblood) - mystery skulls
5. game over - emm
6. walk like an egyptian - the bangles
7. night running - shin sakiura feat. aaamyyyy
8. turn the page - metallica
9. dollhouse - melanie martinez
10. addict - silva hound
1. can you afford to be an individual - nothing but thieves
2. gaze - unlike pluto
3. happy pills - weathers
4. palm reader - dreamers
5. dead man walking - city wolf
6. mad iqs - idkhow
7. oblivion - royal blood
8. dirty - grandson
9. sinners - barn courtney
10. out of style - the wrecks
10 very different songs, out of order;
1. black smoke rising - greta van feet
2. les 2 printemps - daniel bélanger
3. flower people - gin lady
4. plastic love - mariya takeuchi
5. kiara - bonobo
6. good ridance - darren knob
7. feels good .inc - gorrilaz
8. genesis - justice
9. overnight - parcels
10. run - foo fighters
fiou, i was afraid it was his [crazy train cover] (
ciborium, [clarkson] ( and hammond we took an old bang christie ... may looks like the one who has stayed the best ...
phew! i had never heard this version… poor ozzy.
well, let's see, i was sure to come across rick astley while clicking.
may has always been old.
are there still people making rick rolls in 2021?
he ages at the same speed he drives.
this one, ozzy adored.
i don't know, but honestly, come to think of it, i think i would have preferred that.
> are there still people making rick rolls in 2021?
yes, greta thurnberg
boom, roasted!
oh?
i had seen that there were vaccination places where there was an option with support animals.
kind of a room where people could wait a little in private with animals that accompany them during the vaccination.
i don't know if it's still being done but it could be an option to watch
it pains me to read pcq i am an adult with a good phobia of needles, to the point where even i admit to having cried at home before going to be vaccinated (i am aware that it is not rational, but i do not control it). in short, i really sympathize with your boy for having this phobia for a long time.
personally, i was allowed to be vaccinated lying down, and it's a little less scary. i approve of the previous comment to have a dialogue with him to understand his fear a little and try to rationalize. personally, i almost always faint when i have a bite and that's pretty much what worries me. by focusing on the fact that it's not the end of the world and that i am surrounded by good people (the worst-case scenario = not that bad after all, it helps me a bit.
but above all, do not make him feel bad for his phobia. good luck!
first of all, congratulations on respecting your choice and not rushing things. whether it's a vaccine or sports or whatever, too many parents are pushing too hard for the "good of the child." it's all in your honor.
i think talking with him is the ideal solution, ask him what scares him, is it the syringe, is it the pain-like side effects on the site? 'injection etc. start by identifying the sore spot.
also, friends are such a big influence especially at these ages, i think going there as a duet with a friend would probably be something that would help even more.
finally, ideally he should focus on you or on something but not have his eye on the syringe before. i don't know how they do it with young people but we were kind of square, 3 x 3, and the nurse who was walking around and taking college shots you had time to see her syringe for a long time.
good luck op!
honestly, you did well not to push it more than it takes because it will just increase its opposition to vaccines in the future. especially that if he is tense it will hurt him like a female dog and in that head he will continue to believe that it is worse than it is.
i had some discomfort with the needles as an attendant had taken 5 attempts not to take a blood test when i was younger.
my brother had changed my mind when he summed it up to get pinched hard.
maybe faking him by having him look the other way while he has his shoulder pinched can reduce the fear of pain since he's probably hurt himself more before.
i had to physically restrain my daughter (more like a big hug like). she knew it, she understood, but she has overreactions, uncontrollable. it lasted a few seconds and afterwards she burst out laughing, because she knew very well that her reaction was not logical, but that it was zero of her fault.
did you ask to go to a private corner? mine received her vaccine on a stretcher, out of sight. it helped diffuse the situation and that's probably the reason she was able to laugh about it afterwards.
i don't know where you live, but i read in la presse that some centers have adapted to the needs of children: “the vaccination centers have been set up in a“ fun ”way to accommodate young clients. at the palais des congrès in particular, users showed up early in the morning on wednesday, in a good atmosphere. pet therapy dogs, adapted rooms, entertainment or ephemeral tattoos: the ciusss du center-sud-de-l'île-de-montréal had gone out of its way to welcome children. "
maybe letting the time go would change his mind. maybe these friends will be a positive influence for him.
if your child is not directly in danger because of a particular condition, i would advise you not to force him and not to go back over the event. the ideal would be for him to decide on his own to go back there, with a friend for example, or a toy he cares about and can hug.
i myself left my first date crying because i didn't feel comfortable enough, and i came back about a month later. if someone had forced me to do it it would have had the opposite effect of encouraging me.
ultimately if it's really too much for him i don't think forcing him is the right option, hoping that activities for young people don't necessarily require the vaccine.
is it like that for all bites? how are things going with her other vaccines that children get in fourth grade, hpv / hepatitis? not received yet?
i will be doing research on how to desensitize it, counter conditioning and tagteach (tagteach is more in english). a phobia can very well work, it just takes patience and your child is in a context of success!
hi! anxious woman here. first of all, i believe you made the right decision not to forcibly vaccinate him. this could have had a negative consequence on the relationship of trust. from my experiences in therapy, what works for me is to feel listened to and validated. "it's normal to be afraid of syringes. it's true that it hurts. i understand you, it's true that it is scary." then an exercise that can be interesting is to ask him what is the worst situation that could happen (and to reassure him). is he afraid of being in pain? is he afraid of feeling sick afterwards? and tell him what will happen in a rational way, to tell him that you will be there for him. finally, ask him what he needs. it will surely be a difficult exercise: myself at almost 30 years old, i do not always know what my needs are. does he need time to calm down before the vaccine? to be vaccinated lying down? hold a hand or a hug? not to see the needle? to do it as quickly as possible? slower ? tell her the steps the nurse takes? otherwise, i read in other comments the idea of simulation and support animals which would probably be great ideas too. good luck.
see it from his point of view. he didn't want to do something, he screamed and so it didn't happen. from his point of view, he won. same thing for the kid who makes the bacon at toy r us and who finally got it. good luck for the future.
you are his father / parent. you have to understand him and care about how he feels, but at some point the vaccine will come in and that's it.
why do you want to vaccinate your kid? do you have an autoimmunity problem?
sacred y patience esti.
> n before going to be vaccinated (i am aware that it is not rational, but i do not control it). in short, i really sympathize with your boy for having this phobia for a long time.
>  
> personally, i was allowed to be vaccinated lying down, and it's a little less scary. i agree with the previous comment d
there was a children's section in lasalle with decorations everywhere. it makes the experience fun. maybe it helps the little ones who are just fearful. but hey, it doesn't help when there is a phobia.
a nice lady came to try to help. she brought a christmas stocking with a penguin on it to show her ..... my boy is 10 years old, he's scared, the little penguin couldn't help him.
thank you. especially since he was forced / maintained during his last vaccination 3 years ago, i didn't want to repeat that.
> an attendant had taken 5 attempts not to take a blood test when i was younger.
>  
> my brother changed my mind when he summed it up
we failed to keep him "in place" ... we tried by sitting him on us and then in the entwined position facing each other ... knowing that the needle was going to follow he did not want to stay there and did not want to not look elsewhere.
there was 0 private location in lasalle that i saw. we were right in the middle of the ice rink. if there had been a better place i'm sure they would have offered it after 30 minutes of screaming and crying ... but hey made it there i don't think it would have changed much.
i was in lasalle and yes it was fun as a decoration. from what i have seen the playful makes the experience enjoyable and helps children with fears, but is 0% effective for phobias.
yes and no. he already wanted to receive it ...
he missed 10 days of school twice this fall and it was from that moment that he said he wanted to take the vaccine ... before that it was us who talked to him about it but this never came from him.
we have changed more than 10% of the roofs on the bridge since 2015. and eventually we will have to replace all of them. it's not particularly exceptional.
a bit like the bridge-pocalypse we had the right to last summer which was in fact a repetition of the work that had been done a few years earlier with many months of media hype and no contractor who pays hotel rooms and helicopter rides to its employees.
so i wonder who currently enjoys making it look like the pl bridge is on the verge of death?
we name a bridge after a mobster and after that we wonder why it is expensive!
what bothers me the most is the photo of the journalist who seems to come straight out of the 1970s.
i maintain my penis on a regular basis. this is normal for him to stay healthy. a penis is like a bridge. when several people pass over it. it takes without occupying from time to time for it to remain functional.
> so i wonder who currently benefits from making believe that the pl bridge is on the verge of death?
the apostles of the 3rd link.
> so i wonder who currently benefits from making believe that the pl bridge is on the verge of death?
the answer is simple and always the same: the party ti-namis, the bitumen mafia.
they completely rebuilt the main thoroughfare in my area two years ago and it is in worse shape today than it was before the work began ... that's what i call deceitful obsolescence. i want to believe that the roads in quebec are not easy because of the freeze / thaw, but 2 years ???? it just doesn't work. i do not believe it. i see no other explanation than systemic corruption. the asphalt they removed was at least 20 years old.
finally a little common sense.
it's a perfectly normal interview. a bridge of this type is good for much more than its current 50 years. it is not "alarming" to have to change parts. and a third link wouldn't really help the problem anyway, imagine directing all this traffic towards downtown ... then the back roads in downtown lévis take all that and send it back west? it's already blocked on this side. the tunnel would be a parking lot with obvious bottlenecks at both ends.
even the debate on the quebec bridge, it is not the whole bridge that will have to be changed "soon", only the deck in the center. that's what it is for. the middle part is removed and a new one is brought up from a boat. this is exactly the purpose of this type of bridge. we see the large moving parts in the center.
isn't it the pont de québec that some people describe as on the verge of ruin? i'm not from the area so are they exaggerating there too?
it reminds me a little of the article in the journal de quebec two weeks ago whose title was that the bridge continued to deteriorate, but the article asserted that the behavior index of the structure had been stable since two years (92.9 / 100- so in good condition). lots of pro 3rd link groups have used it as an argument.
the bridge is in the middle of its life, so it has theoretically 50 years of life left. in 20 years we can start to think about a replacement.
for the quebec bridge, as far as i know, we have no report on the subject. some people share the idea that it is at the end of its life, but in reality we have no real idea.
not sure he would have a bridge in his name if he had been killed in a terrorist event ...
> the apostles of the 3rd link.
imagine the costs when the third link starts to be stolen.
they have done the same 300m road three times in two years next to my house because they have not been screwed to synchronize the different jobs to be carried out for the maintenance ... so once normal maintenance, a times they have redone the structure of the viaduct over which it passes and once the gas lines have to be changed ...
honestly what you raise are the two most important points in my opinion which perfectly demonstrate that the third link is a false good idea.
a major argument from the third link pros is that today's bridges are starting to age. so what? a link to the east will never be a replacement for links to the west. the day when the links to the west are no longer good, a new link to the west will have to be built anyway to replace them. this is a non-argument in favor of a link to the east.
finally, the most important point is that connecting city center to city center is a really bad idea. the planned exit in quebec is already completely congested at rush hour, people who think of saving themselves from traffic with the third link risk taking the leap. it's changing $ 1 for 4 thirty cents. in addition, the people of lévis will bitterly regret in 25 years of having carried so much traffic through their city center, it will become super congested.
alarmists say the two could collapse overnight.
in fact, the quebec bridge does need maintenance, but it belongs to cn and the battle to get them to do the paint job is gaining ground. 
it is certain that if we do not maintain it, we will have problems in the long term.
it's in bad shape, yes. for several years there has been a steel plate at the south entrance to patch up a lack of asphalt or whatever.
it hasn't been repainted in years. (check google maps, we see the rust from end to end.). the job had been started at the beginning of 2000 and it was aborted. i dare not imagine what it looks like below the apron.
and since then, cn has added large metal plates that separate rail traffic from auto traffic. we are talking about [fairly thick plates] ( ! 7i16384! 8i8192) which must add several tonnes by weight.
well, our young people will be worried for us in 50 years.
and they are experts in the matter so it becomes hard to believe in anything other than bad faith and shenanigans.
worse i mean ... if it's really incompetence maybe we shouldn't hire them.
in short, it is true that it is not easy to keep roads in good condition in quebec. there are a lot of factors that prevent us from doing this, but it's not normal that we become less good over time.
five years ago, quebec city paved all the streets in a neighborhood where i lived. 1 month after the paving, they dug a trench along the entire length of one of the streets (approximately .5 km) to replace the pipes. then, patching asphalt. same kind of stupidity.
totally agree. considering that people start from west of levis and travel to west of quebec [as written here] ( a-ballast-e465aec9037edbcdb01c761bce38046b). making a third link, regardless of whether downtown or île d'orléans, would not reduce traffic on current bridges. we would just add cars from people who decide to move to the east of lévis to work in quebec, which will just increase congestion in the city.
chalice that we were ugly
mine starved to death in his own hole when i went to the movies to see starship troopers ...
i remember once our teacher took our tamagotchi from us. we could only hear them cry with hunger until one of them died. we all started to cry too
what is that accent there?
thanks for the memories. i remember very well that at school it was mostly something that girls had but then a lot of boys had it that it became normal.
my mother didn't want to buy me one! that is why today i am an irresponsible person.
sorry for anyone with that last name but ... christian poulet !! gorgeous!!!
- how long have you had it?
- three weeks!
- worse, is he already dead?
- ten times!
lol
there was a secret way to put him on pause. otherwise my parents would never have let me have one.
also known as a tabarnagotchi.
i was 11, it was a big hype.
fun times. i always wonder where i put mine elsewhere
the girl who sucks her thumb at first makes me sick in tabarnak.
ahahhahahh
rip ton tamagotchi.
bad parent, you left her alone.
ha! me it was during titanic. you're talking about a film that never stops finishing.
butt plug drole
it is a certification for electrical devices
not bad sexist if it's a female adapter
ps op and the commentators, we say adapter, like adaptation, not adapter
"canada underwriters laboratories"
r/trouduction
it brightens your day solid once installed
whoever found the name of the canadian branch of ul didn't look long. seems to me that underwriters laboratories canada (ulc) would be such better than cul.
we had a running gag at the office at the time for the concepts of marde: it was cul approved.
they are "commentators".
both words exist
you just confirmed that "adapter" could also exist… it's a matter of time.
except that in this case we are talking about the derivative of the name adaptation and our language is based above all on an etymological logic so i very much doubt it.
this is the kind of data table that speaks volumes!
"where is your proof that the vaccine is safe?"
"there are vaccinated people who collect themselves at the same hospital!"
two arguments of marde already countered.
all that remains is to have stats to counter "the vaccine does nothing to prevent transmission, it's just to protect the vaccine itself!"
man, fuck les antivax.
my 2 sisters are anti vas for different reasons. this kind of table and statistics have no effect. there is no logic. it's weird because they are smart in other aspects of their life. one of my sisters has a condition that puts her in the high risk category.
still crazy how much age is a major risk factor. those under 30 who are not vaccinated are much less likely to be hospitalized than those 70 and over who are doubly vaccinated!
still, the graph speaks volumes, the vaccine is really effective. i also take away that the less than 60 years doubly vaccinated are very well protected, the obligatory mask in the places with the vaccination passport it is returned from the theater.
source: 
it's almost as if the vaccine works. 🤔
a picture is worth a thousand words as they say.
now, i would like to see among the double vaccinated, how many of them have conditions that put them more at risk (obesity, respiratory problem, etc.).
so that proves that antivax is darwin awards.
worse when i think of our idiots from the south with their host of pureblood posts ... it's really idiocracy.
so it's clear: if we consider the 80+ double vax as safe, it's the same for the non-vax of 30 and less.
can anyone explain why it says "vaccination data from september 19, 2021"
how can we make the table if the data is not on the same time?
the effects are pretty obvious, but to play devil's advocate: the table may also illustrate a certain correlation between the behavior - potentially more at risk - of an unvaccinated, and not simply the risk associated with not being vaccinated. vaccination itself. in other words, an unvaccinated person will naturally tend to adopt less concerned behavior, and therefore, to expose themselves more. this will inflate the number of cases in the unvaccinated, resulting from a kind of double negative, so to speak.
just to be very clear though: i believe 100% in the effectiveness of vaccines.
i find it curious that there are so many single-dose vaccines in the 70-79, and 80+ ranges.
as far as i understand, seniors were given priority access to vaccines, so that from august (at the latest), anyone who wanted was double vaccinated.
has anyone heard of this phenomenon / have a plausible explanation? it's intriguing.
[deleted]
cé pa vré. cé dé fo chiffes.
watched live this video which says all the vairity before kelle is deleted: [ danemark(
\\n
(ah! damn, i did not grant my kelle with my either ... i lost a lot of my conspi grammar ...)
ah bin, a correlation. who would have believed it.
mmmm i wonder why it is important to be vaccinated ...
good, good!
when are the passports going?
i was looking for exactly this statistic thank you !!!
add to this that the majority of the population is vaccinated and there is no argument
oh how good that is! all hidden, mandatory, transport costs. it's almost as bad as airbnb.
i signed up! my partner and i bought a 2019 subaru forester (used) from subaru outaouais and we were charged $ 500 for a pre-delivery inspection. we had asked to remove these fees and they never wanted to. why "inspect" an almost new vehicle for which there is still a "bumper to bumper" warranty? the answer: to line their pockets with illegal fees.
the turkish mafia… i mean hgrégoire will not be happy.
it's a lot worse because it's been going on for a lot longer
the transport costs are legal but it is not bad the only matter! i was charged with the anti-theft system costs that i had no choice but to take ...
i hope they will get the illegal charges reimbursed! that would make a little more $ 500 in the pockets! but i feel like i'll have time to finish paying for the car before i get a check ...
i bought my cat there and we're pretty happy, can you tell me more about the turkish mafia?
it is noted that the appeal also covers the transport costs!
i hope your cat is doing well and that you haven't screwed up too much.
it must be for used cars
the issue is that the charges are legal but, since it is not a tax, they should be included in the price advertised on the advertisements / on the dealer's website.
as in the days of plane tickets: $ 99 montreal tokyo, plus 1250 taxes and fees
it’s going to cancel christmas for 10 people and during that time you’re going to have 22,000 at the bell center for three days.
not gonna happen. everyone in government knows that the political price to cancel a 2nd christmas would be far too high.
i'm not surprised at the increase, with the cold weather and the gatherings to come, it's a bit of a repeat of last year. there we have the vaccines, which can fortunately slow down hospitalizations, but i must say that i am as pessimistic as in 2020.
makes a loud screech that i'm no longer worried. if you're not vaccinated, that's your problem.
hmm no i'm not worried ...
at my job, the unvaccinated people lose their jobs from next monday. they are going to have a mustard christmas
honestly, i don't think we should be worried about christmas. it's the election in less than a year. the caq is already in election mode. they will cancel the last christmas before the next election. they want to earn as much political capital as possible by 2022.
it would surprise me that it came to this.
near christmas 2020, we were (almost) without vaccines and the only health measure that remained to be added was containment. this year, we have one of the highest vaccination rates in the world and we have a lot of lighter measures that can be put / put back in place before being reduced to that.
now, one thing i'm pretty sure there won't be any further reliefs until christmas, so the 10 person is going to stay 10 people. but before imposing containment, we have a big margin to gradually step back on the reductions of the last 3-4 months, as well as to broaden the scope of the vaccination passport to include access to all non-essential businesses (in several other countries, this was already the case from the launch of the said passport).
the bad news to me is that if even after trying all this the situation was so bad that the hospitals would no longer be able to keep up, we now have a precedent for the curfew; if there is a ban on gatherings for the holidays, it is guaranteed that it will be accompanied by a curfew to ensure that it is respected. but like i said, i would be very surprised if it came to that.
worried about christmas but not about the number of cases. ok.
those who are worried may have good reasons to stay home… that remains an option.
> one month away from christmas and with the number of covid-19 cases exceeding 900, on wednesday, many quebecers are wondering if they will be able to spend the holidays with their families this year.
already it's limited to 10 people ...
i don't think they are going to cancel, but if what is happening in europe catches up with us and the hospitals start to fill up again, they will have no choice but to impose certain restrictions.
i think people are worried about the government's reaction more than the covid itself.
what domain do you work in?
it's going to be played out on hospitalization that's clear.
the tv work ends, we come back to the office more and more, just in time for the office parties before going to see the families.
> they will not have the choice to put certain restrictions.
people will just ignore them even more than the last time.
the hospitals are almost empty of covid ... the number of cases is increasing, it's normal, it's an influenza virus, so it's very contagious and everything is open, especially schools. in addition, many vaccinated do not even respect the basic measures. stop expecting the cases to stop, and please stop torturing yourself by following this daily! you will end up thinking about it so hard that you will get sick. you are a real gold mine for newspapers! they will continue to torment you until you wait for the worst anxious ones to be tanned in their turn ...
hospitalizations do not increase much despite the increase in cases in recent weeks, the elderly (more vulnerable) are entitled to a 3rd dose and young people between 5-11 years old can now be vaccinated (more than 100,000 appointments taken already).
we do not go through at all, for example, what is happening in austria (16x more daily cases for about the same population in number as quebec).
all that to say that i don't care more than that.
i am in the laurentians and i would say that 22.1% is the minimum of the increase. in my neighborhood, those who sell are ** offered ** at least 25% more and to that you have to add the fact that the displayed price is already * boosted. * the signs 'for sale' do not even have the time to be planted, the agents directly put the signs 'sold'.
well, it's true that even pre-pandemic it sold really fast here. but still.
fucking insanity
yen who will cringe when interest rates rise
félicitations! you've been zillowed
it's not as if there was a lack of land .. in the village i understand, but around ..
it's like how you win easily at the plague inc. game you start with a virus that spreads easily and when researchers start to find the cure but your virus is comfortably spread all over the world, you mutate it so agressive. it works almost every time.
the rich are talking about their 3rd doses while the poor countries are still waiting for their first. should we be surprised that the delta variant is indian and the new one is south african?
we must help these countries to improve their number of vaccinated….
i'm a little sick of the media that really don't help the situation with their scare-mongering articles and headlines. we do not know much about the new variant, it seems to me that it is not the time to scare the population as well, before having the facts! ok, this virus has a lot of mutations, but mutations can also make a virus less virulent. tabarouette.
*it has 32 mutations in the spike protein, the part of the virus that most vaccines use to prime the immune system against covid. that is about double the number associated with the delta variant.* 
\ #cavabienaller
the new one is not necessarily south african. it's just that they have the tools to detect cases very quickly, they have one of the best laboratories in the world. the rest of africa on the other hand ....
> the rich talk about their 3rd doses while the poor countries are still waiting for their first
i was listening to a report last week which said that the difficulty of vaccination in africa was no longer mainly due to the lack of vaccine supply but rather to the reluctance of the local population to vaccination.
but bill gates said the intellectual property of vaccines shouldn't be lifted
> the rest of africa on the other hand
is doing very well as they are not obese and have a very strong immune system.
doesn't take much time to check the stats.
there is a new report every week to say that \ [capitalism's fault \] in fact it is the \ [victim of capitalism \] fault without any evidence other than anecdotal
'a very strong immune system'
it seems to be going well because they don't have the means to screen like crazy.
indeed it does not take much time to look at the stats. if you had done it, you would have seen that the african countries are those which test the least….
it is sure that when you do not have the means neither to test your population nor to test the cause of death of your deaths, all are well!
this in no way prevents the virus from roaming freely there and can mutate there.
those who have survived all of the other diseases that circulate with little access to medical / hospital care may well have better immune systems.
the average age of the population is also much lower, and finally the available data of cases, tests and variants are not as good as elsewhere.
very nice to check the stats, you have to understand them.
you just have to watch a report / documentary on ebola in africa and you will see that there is a great reluctance to seek treatment. groups were organizing raids on humanitarian camps.
are the hospitals full? no. there's literally nothing else that matters, it's been 2 years since it's supposed to be in people's heads.
there's the same business screeching here
are you talking about hospitals in africa? because it was his subject, must remain in the subject.
you know what hospitals in africa except that 99.99% of the population will never have access to them because their system is private?
i'm spoiling myself today:
1-do you have any tips to * pimp * your salads on the side?
2-is there a way to make crispy sweet potato fries? both in the oven and in the air fryer, they always end up soft.
3-has anyone ever made homemade cheese? i ordered this [ki t] ( and i am curious to have your stories
we're trying our first batch of pot brownies this weekend.
also it will be the batch of spag sauce for the winter!
i bought the last book from la cuisine de jean-philippe, réconfort végane. to date, it is four successes on the four recipes that i have tried.
with the cost of groceries on the rise, eating vegan is a pretty easy way to cut costs. in addition it tastes good!
tonight i made noodles [biang biang] ( super easy to make and it smells great in my kitchen!
* two cups of flour
* about a cup of water (maybe more, maybe less, it depends)
* a pinch of salt
* lots of oil
in a bowl, combine the flour and salt. add the water gradually while kneading, to obtain a smooth ball. knead a little, cover and let stand 30 minutes. cut dough into quarters, shape into 6-inch logs. return to bowl with enough oil to coat all surfaces of the dough. cover and let stand 2 hours.
boil a large pot of water. take a log, and crush it by hand to make a large, long, thin patty. with a flat baguette, make an indentation along the cake. grasp the ends of the patty, then with your arms shake in the air, knocking the middle of the patty on the work surface to stretch it. tear off the indented center from the middle, to make a large loop. throw in the water and boil for 1 minute, until the noodle floats. repeat with the other logs.
it is possible to blanch for about the same amount of time (1 minute) some bok choy in water while the noodles are cooking.
the garnish:
* minced garlic
* szechuan pepper powder
* chili flakes
* cell
* coriander (optional)
* chili (optional)
* green onions (optional)
* leek (looks like it could be!)
* black vinegar
* sauce soya
* a few spoonfuls of oil
heat the oil until it smokes. on the noodle serving plate, place the toppings over the noodles, including a little of each sauce. drizzle the steaming oil over the toppings to make them crackle. stir the noodles.
this week i started a war in my family because i dared to say that my lasagna is the best (which is absolutely true, tse).
* ground pork in tomato sauce (soy sauce, hoisin sauce, garam masala)
* zucchini, spinach and garlic
* cheddar fort
* mushrooms
from bottom to top:
* a small base of meat sauce
* dough
* generous layer of sauce
* dough
* vegetables
* dough
* a small layer of sauce
* gratin, gratin and more gratin to save chances
* mushroom slices for garnish
* 375 for one hour
for salads, some fruit can be special.
with a simple vinaigrette, like olive oil and balsamic vinegar, you can add grapefruit if you want something more acidic, or strawberries if you want to soften the vinegar.
for your salad pimpage question, i recently discovered roasted hazelnuts. delicious!
this is the only good thing that came out of our try at "ready-to-cook" boxes. really not for us. i love to cook too much, and since i work at home, if i can go to the grocery store, i will be able nowhere!
1-some basic rules:
\ -contrast textures by adding something crunchy (nuts, seeds, croutons, crackers, plain crisps, etc.)
\ - flavor contrast (fresh or dried fruit, cheese, anchovies)
\ -vary the lettuce or whatever (use a peeler to peel carrots, or zucchini, cabbage or radish on a mandolin, etc.)
\ -add fresh herbs or citrus zest
\ -vary the homemade dressings (vary the oil, vinegar or mustard, spices, and sugar / honey / syrup) or make creamy variations with avocado, yogurt, sour cream or mayo in the dressing
the important thing: taste and adjust the seasoning before serving, and dress the salad well without using too much vinaigrette
3-i often improvise ricotta or its variants of fresh cheese made with vinegar. super simple
> 1-do you have any tips to spice up your salads on the side?
roasted pumpkin seed
> 2-is there a way to make crispy sweet potato fries? both in the oven and in the air fryer, they always end up soft.
coat them with a little honey
for sweet potatoes, i advise you to watch this video, it talks about why sweet potato fries are soft all the time, and how to remedy
as the others have said, nuts and fruits are a winner.
you can grill some of the vegetables too, even the salad!
cheese shavings, parmesan is always appreciated.
pieces of bacon if you're meaty.
> spice up a salad
* house dressing: it tastes something, instead of having to drown your salad in commercial dressing which is not always famous. my recipe revolves around two parts vinegar for one part oil, a pinch of salt, lots of dried herbs (what you have in your pantry), paprika, cumin seeds, caraway seeds.
* something other than iceberg: spinach, romaine, curly, arugula, etc. everything but the iceberg. icebergs are good in compost.
* something with texture: croutons, feta, apples, cranberries, etc.
> crispy fries
the cooking mode must be very hot, as in the limit for burning. in the deep fryer, the ultimate trick is to fry the potatoes twice: hot for cooking, then really hot for the surface. in the oven, same concept: hot.
> homemade cheese
i was supposed to do it last week, but life was in the legs. attempt tomorrow!
1. i am using my spiralizer. carrots or zucchini, it adds volume and fun to the salad. otherwise, a little bit of party, it's always a winner.
3. yes, but not too successful in our case. that's a huge amount. the ricotta is super easy to make but the semi-firm fromage blanc we missed after 10 attempts to make it up.
ricardo's brownie recipe is really good for that. i use chocolate with small pieces of orange in it, it's even better. take the time to make your butter properly and have a good take off!
we bought our first vegan recipe book this weekend (my great vegan classics) and the first recipe we had was really delicious! i can't wait to try more
excellent choice 👀
looks super good, i'll try this!
i support the house dressing, it makes all the difference. i prefer rice vinegar in general, but balsamic vinegar with tomatoes and feta makes a party in the mouth.
did you forget the link?
> the cooking mode must be very hot, as in the limit for burning. in the deep fryer, the ultimate trick is to fry the potatoes twice: hot for cooking, then really hot for the surface. in the oven, same concept: hot.
my fryer is already at the max: |
how many hockey pucks is that?
[deleted]
[deleted]
meanwhile sur r/canada: "lmao mooses, we're so canadian"
me my fret capacity is not yet reached in tk.
what i find funny with these alternative measurement units is that it just hurts visualization and comprehension in the long run. because it prevents you from practicing using the metric system. so it's still a vague notion
are you going to tell me that you don't know the international unit of measurement for adult moose?
it's so specific it's suspicious.
they seem to have too much expertise in the mass transport of adult originals.
from cossé?
you have to be canadian to give a "moose" weight measurement ...
they'll have to convert this into unemployed puddings if they hope to win us back.
men, shut up your internet page on your damn maniac cell
even if it was in tonnes, it wouldn't make more sense to talk about freight transport. 82 originals by plane? per day? per week? just one time?
and how much is that in couric?
i had read 860 adult originals and hardly understood the choice of unit
a quick napkin calculation tells me that
* a bull moose weighs between [380-700 kg] (
* une puck pèse autour de [6 onces (170 g)](
so to make a round number, roughly 3200 pucks / moose.
the real question, why not build the railroads with super beams?
xd i had forgotten to super-beam
worse in timbits?
nothing much surprises me when it comes to canada and its attitude towards quebec (and i would even go so far as to say the rest of the world.)
their definition of themselves comes down to "i'm not like x, i'm much better".
and their usual osti of always presenting the muslim woman with a veil is cartoonish and incredibly reductive.
are you asking so much to have a separation between state and religion?
canada is a collective delirium. when the existence of your country is based on a false moral claim to the united states, it becomes easy to lose direction (and meaning).
we should run advertisements explaining how canada and certain provinces had laws that discriminated against french.
law 21 is a prime example of the use of islamophobia as a "wedge issue" to win elections. from my point of view, two data confirm this opinion:
the problem that law 21 claims to address is the perception that if state authority is enforced by someone who wears outward signs of religious faith, it may give the impression that the state endorses that religion. the hypocrisy of this device is demonstrated by the complete absence of this problem in public discourse until the caq strategists, armed with the results of focus groups following the hearings on "quebec values" realized that segment of xenophobes to that of worried atheists is enough to win elections in quebec.
second, if "secularism" were truly a core value of the caq, as opposed to the pursuit of power, bill 21 would also apply to heavily subsidized private denominational schools. but that would lose more votes than it earns.
hey, say: i'm correcting "complete absence", u / nodanator found [an article] ( -pepin-and-the-liberal-party). and it was not the caq strategists who had this idea, it is one of the recommendations of the bouchard-taylor commission. the fact remains that if it had ignited the public debate before the caq proposed bill 21, we would remember it. not me.
nadia murad is an example of islamophobia in canada, so don't be too surprised.
and we should teach the targeted xenophobia against quebec from ontarians who still linger in quebec and willfully blind themselves to all the other much larger versions of secularism in the western world.
tse, if the world's most recognized international human rights tribunal (ecthr) repeatedly decides that secularism is a legitimate goal, you don't have to agree at all. on the other hand, if despite that you continue to be unable to conceive that a person can legitimately hold this opinion, you have a feeling of lack of honesty or intellect.
> this is what we can hear in a video produced by the muslim association of canada for the ontario ministry of education.
the muslim association of canada. who claims to be muslim brothers?
> when an association claims to be anti-racism, it does not invite people to its activities who advocate the assassination of jews. yet this is what the mac has done, twice rather than once.
> tareq mouhammed al-saleh al-suwaidan is an islamist from kuwait who has been banned from living in italy and belgium. he wrote a book that advocates the murder of the israelites and calls for jihad against the west. he gave a first conference for mac members in december 2020. he was scheduled to do another in august 2021. after i reported the case, his second presentation was canceled.
> the mac has also invited several hate preachers in the past, including mohammed rateb al-nabulsi, who favors the death penalty for homosexuals. this kind of call to murder for gays and lesbians is also echoed by another regular of mac activities, abdullah hakkeem quick. an ottawa mosque which invited him to spread its poison lost its charitable status in the process. this sanction has been denounced by islamists as "islamophobia".
i do not need to be lectured by an association which also claimed the right arm of osama bin laden, i am talking about ayman al-zawahiri here. fuck the mac they should be deported and should be called what they really are. radical theocrats sympathizing with al-caida. they can say whatever they want, but unlike them, quebec has no blood on its hands.
i take comfort in the fact that canada will probably cease to exist within 50 years.
the law is not applied equally and therefore is racist in my opinion. i am open to respectful debate.
ontario is taught as an example of francophobia in quebec.
law 21 is racist, only the caq's henchmen claim the opposite. good way to unite stealthy racists and unsure people. there are only non-muslims who do not suffer the perverse effects of this law to claim that no, it is not racist at all.
i am a muslim born in quebec and more integrated than me that does not exist. yet i still have the right to comments from the mardes of the caquists who think that because their spiritual leader has declared war on the muslims, ben is making it okay to openly display his shitty beliefs.
legault never said fuck muslims you can mistreat them but apparently that's what his base has understood and he doesn't throw himself in front of the cameras to tell them to stop.
there are some religions that are not welcome even though this law claims that it is for all religions
i am against bill 21, because it attacks individuals when the state is already secular by its laws and its judges, but even more against this mania than in ontario to believe itself so superior to quebec, heartbreaking.
quebec will just have to separate
come on, we must admit that what makes this law so popular is that quebecers do not like to see women veiled. if there were no muslims in quebec, we wouldn't even think about making this law.
people who wear crucifixes never bothered anyone.
but when we see a veiled woman we automatically think that she is going to proselytize us and impose her religious beliefs on us ??
it is also a good example of an unconstitutional law and a good example of the abuse of the cause notwithstanding. very good lesson, 3 for the price of one
the protestant anglo-saxons who lecture quebeckers always make me laugh when you visit their past 🥲
imagine believing in god in 2021.
fucking lol
this is the kind of news that makes me proud to be canadian. \ s
nice, we will give a $ 20,000 scholarship to it students and then offer them 34,000 (dec) or 52,000 (bac).
it's funny how we kept hearing about that to solve the shortage of manpower to nurses to give them almost $ 100,000 each year was a good idea but that we do not apply this same reasoning to other employment groups….
they announce all this drette when i finish my baccalaureate in computer science.
good idea!
engineering student here, the government already gives me enough money (loans and scholarships, government funded scholarships, government funded internships), please spend it elsewhere.
at one point nurses don't have the same reality as people in it.
it is entry-level salaries that will increase rapidly with work experience, an important difference from the issue of nurses' salaries in general.
52,000 with a bin? your numbers are 15 years late i think
better than the failure tax of yesteryear.
i look forward to the next sessions where i will tell my students to give their all because there is a potential $ 1,500 if they pass the course: d
as long as you plan to work here, i see it all as investments! i agree that part of my taxes are used to financially reduce some students!
i just find that it regulates average, in tk at the level of the civil servants, the recruitment because the salaries are far from being competitive.
when you are going to have finished your studies and the private sector will offer you $ 150,000 per year or the public at 56,700, you may not think about it for too long….
> at some point nurses do not have the same reality as people in it.
if the salary depended on the harsh working conditions, garbage collectors would earn more than it and nurses.
explain that to all those who do not apply to the government…. i think we have reached 15 open positions in my job, it was 11 in september ...
dude my figures are on the site of the treasury board or your not a very effective reading comprehension ... thank you
far below $ 150k even ending up at private. unless you're prepared to do 70-80h per week.
your argument does not work because as far as i know, although they are very essential, the garbage collectors do not have to do a technique and even less a bac.
it doesn't have a patient's health or life in their hands, they don't have to work evenings, nights, or mandatory overtime.
ultimately, it mostly works in the private sector, so the government has no control over their wages.
i'm not a nurse, garbage collector, or it worker, so i don't have any bias, it's just common sense
in it / software that? it's normal that you have trouble finding. the entire salary scale is a joke. not just the salary when you start.
> if the salary depended on difficult conditions
i know…. worse even those who come from
private have a hard time being recognized from the ranks…. often they refuse the offer ...
instead, “permanent consultants” are recruited at $ 200,000 - $ 250,000 per year. who sooner or later leaves with all their luggage ...
it did well on an audi as well.
i bow down to so much beauty.
ialdoua
nice
gldoua in the ass to heat badly….
seen in blainville right?
he wanted to write "i have the finger", but there was not enough space ...
it would have fit better on a mercedes gl
st. jerome
do not
cool but i would have liked to have had a source / explanation. how do you get to sledging by slodia? none of the phonemes is the same.
thank you!
it went through low latin * sludia * before arriving at french. probably a bunch of changes over the course of history, including dialects of french that are now extinct.
super interesting. do you have the link to the article or podcast? how did you hear about it?
i read it in a book: [if the french language was told to me] ( langue-francaise-metait-contee_479.aspx), by magalie favre. i didn't find all the etymology online ...
i know what to ask for christmas! thanks :) sounds interesting.
this is what i read at night to my children (8 and 10 years old). they love it, and me too!
are we going to stop persecuting these poor anglos and stop wanting to genocide their language, them who have no other place to go ???
#/s
> this is certainly not the case at present, since certain examinations carried out by french-speaking doctors on french-speaking users end with the drafting of the report in english. the administration, in particular the council of doctors, dentists and pharmacists of the establishment, must tackle a real transformation of the culture which currently prevails in linguistic matters. i recently challenged the president of this council on this subject, but i am still without an answer.
> ci the user who wants to obtain a medical report in french, if the report was written in english, must make a request in order to obtain a “summary” of his clinical file and wait patiently. this is what several people denounce. however, article 2 of the charter clearly specifies that citizens have the right to have health and social services communicate with them in french. francophones are not entitled to equal treatment since they must endure translation delays and only obtain a "summary". is this really what a patient struggling with the diagnosis of a serious illness is entitled to in a state that preaches out loud that there is only one official language in quebec (article 1 of the charter of french language) and that this language is the working language?
could an english speaker who went to the chum ask for his examination, surgery and other reports in english? certain specialties and procedures are only available at the chum, such as lung transplantation.
mc gilles offers health care? * -oh yesiiiii *
law 96 will (read: should) improve the situation, because all documents will have to be written in french and the speakers will have to demonstrate their competence in the use of french.
now it remains to be seen whether control mechanisms will be put in place to enforce the law in its intention, but such complaints should not go unheeded following pl96.
i do not know.
what i do know, however, is that this is not possible at the muhc.
the fact that the opposite situation exists (or not) at the chum should not be an excuse.
> his bill 96 hardly solves the problem, since it always mentions obtaining a "summary" of the clinical file, but "as soon as possible". we all know what that means from a government administration!
danger zone on the metropolitan
coming back from rigaud, coming back from rigaud.
from décarie to crémazie, sapoud.
just the drum beat from degenerations
it's not quebec, but highway to hell on the "old version" with one lane on each side of parc des laurentides towards chicoutimi in winter
"aaaaah how beautiful the road is beautiful, how beautiful the road is beautiful in berthieeeeeee3r"
your love is too heavy from jim corcoran, on 55 in sherbrooke.
in california, they built it badly twice in a row and left it the same.
ludacris' move bitch on the victoria bridge
a lane worse when you're caught behind a matante which rolls at 40 ...
“québécois” of the french revolution… on the end of dorchester boulevard which has not been renamed rené-lévesque.
send mc tronelle
dj riboulet!
and the beat is slow, the world would slow down so that it doesn't give a double kick of deth metal!
because of personal experience?
like when i drive at 250km / h on the metropolitan so that the expansion joints become eurobeat
no choice!
speedy speed boy!
15 years? is he preparing for his 5th term?
edit 1: i think about it, he will be 79-80 years old in 15 years ... is little simon going to take over?
edit 2: in 15 years, half of their voters will be gone for a better world ...
lol its worse to say anything ...
the caq works a lot more on their wealth than ours ...
seeing the competition and its level of support (other than on reddit), i'm pretty sure it will reach 10 ...!
unless the world gets tired of the 65th scandal with fitzgibbon ...
i did not follow the subject too much. didn't legault say he would quit his post in the middle of his second term?
me, that insults me. even when he announced he was preparing for his second term, things went wrong. it is quite clear that unless there is a catastrophe they return in the majority, probably stronger than in 2018, but this is no reason to pretend it was won in advance. imagine, he already has a big head when he leaves and there it is swollen like never before. a little humility wouldn't hurt his image. this guy is really a rooster ... ti-coq legault ... ostia i have my claq
it's a dream, but if we had days like the last few, with rather overwhelming reports to add to the reaction that legault is bound to have to each of them, there might be hope. (i have to hold on to something ...)
it's not confusing, i hate their way of doing things so much that we talk seriously about my wife and i about going to live outside quebec while the competition starts again. not that i'm so much of a fan of the other parties, but it'll at least bring some balance back.
tse when you got to give a damn about who wins as long as they are in the minority, that says a lot ...
it doesn't make sense. "yes but yé good for business ..." especially his business, yes.
i think that's kind of what i mean when i say '' i'm changing places ''. i don't see any hope as long as they are seen as a gift from heaven for quebec.
6 in about 3 years i think? at two a year, that gives us 36 in fifteen years.
initially, if i am not mistaken, legault had said that the caq was a party of great changes and that they would be there just a mandate the time to settle everything. in fact, once again if i am not mistaken, when the caq was created, they were already saying that their changes would be so important that they would not be re-elected afterwards.
note: if it's not clear, i may be wrong or the info just isn't right even though i've read it somewhere
if you're upset, and everyone does like you, how are we going to "build the competition"?
he's a miniss who takes care of his business ... (vague memory of a bye-bye that dealt with [sinclair stevens] ( ..
well, with a change in the voting system that they had "promised", that would probably have changed the political face. but then again, they lied, so ...
you're right, that's why we're talking about it and it's not yet done, among other things.
indeed
invested in crampons. the ones with velcro on the top of your boots. it costs just $ 20 and it avoids falls. if you take public transit, buy a diaper wet bag to put your crampons on when you get on the bus.
it's been a week since i have heard some colleagues in my department be in * "yeh! d'la neiiiiiige! i haaaaaaaate !!" * - in my head, it just rhymes with shoveling ostia and then walk like a cushy to avoid breaking my eyes on the living ice.
i love winter because it's the only excuse screeching that forces us to slow down in our hectic lifestyle.
just to add: in town you want short-tipped campons: they are more durable and efficient on the ice and limit the need to remove them. long-tooth crampons are good for snow but don't like ice;)
thanks for the idea 😘
for me, it rhymes with skiing!
ahahahah 🤙
little secret for you guys, i'm upvoting the daily covid posts just to see the same winners bawling every day:
the pandemia is over because you put the case ???
i have never laughed so much, thank you.
newspapers and tv sets should stop reporting cases every day and instead update us once in a while to tell us the trend up or down.
serious la presse with their big red rectangle in the * breaking news * style as if after 500 days in a row it was still the big news of the day that has so much to do lol.
with the vaccination rate we have in quebec (and in canada in general), covid no longer represents a disproportionate threat compared to other diseases so i don't even see why it is in the public interest to give us a damn of cases in the face each time you want to go see the news between 11am and 2pm.
at worst they keep their dashboard accessible but from there to act as if it was the most important business of the day.
> there is also an increase of eight hospitalizations in the quebec network. so far, 211 patients remain hospitalized in connection with covid-19, of which 46 are still in intensive care, a figure which for its part remained stable compared to the day before.
so are you in the process of turning all conspiratorial hereittteee? !!!!
5th vague !! 1! 1
damn, 900 cases, crazy the same.
anyway, when is the passport going to be taken away?
intensive care +4 double vaccinate +2 non-vaccinate
hospitalizations +18 vaccines out of around 30. it works the crazy stiff vaccine
i'll get the shot when they take off the passport and the mask.
hop hop we do not forget his mask, his 3rd dose to save us from this nasty pandemic. do not forget also that legault and arruda saved us and to vote caq 2022. the cases go up too much, a return of the curfew?
man, you don't need much to laugh
what strain do you smoke? i would like to have the same simplicity as you for a laugh
hey that's funny hihi! 🤓
i'm pretty sure it was my comment that made you say that, but just telling you that i never said the pandemic was over. just that the number of cases isn't a useful metric at this point or at least not enough to be the big news today, every day, for years to come.
you have to be stupid enough to think that the "pandemic" is going to end one day
it's okay to be simple-minded.
hihihihihihihi
so you are a good person!
(in the internet world, the conduct you describe is trolling but not for you, worry, you have a special pass, just for you, my role model!)
hon, someone who has understood everything in life, well done!
your governor general's medal should reach you shortly, no doubt.
must justify the state of emergency
we well at least i am not obliged to wear a mask at work 8 hours of time because of syphilis ... for that i imagine which holds more attention.
clicks = traffic = advertising revenue
as long as people click on the article, they will keep posting it.
osti, ch'tanné. i'm pissed off, i pissed you off, but screeches, i can't blame them because i relatively agree with their demand and it pisses me off twice.
with two parents currently working, all the absences caused by illness / covid prevention, strikes, medical appointments and the like, it didn't work. everything else was already sport to manage, but we understood, but the strike, screeches, ch'tanné.
message to the govt: if your offer, to get it through, absolutely has to pay millions in advertising, it's probably because it's not that good. i fully understand the notion of managing public funds, but with the money that comes from the federal government on this subject and the fact that they are trying to get us into a $ 10 billion tunnel. the cynic in me can't help but be disgusted. ^^ if ^^ is ^^ that ^^ modern quebec ^^, ^^ ben ^^ me ^^ i put ^^ my ^^ flag ^^ in ^^ bern ^^ and ^^ j ' fuck all ^^ the ^^ jesters ^^ who ^^ us ^^ govern.
i understand them to remain united. in 10 years the cook of my children's cpe has had a $ 1 increase in salary ... the government's 9% offer does not even make up for the catch-up and even less with this year's inflation
bravo!!!! ❤❤❤❤❤
* the csq forces an indefinite strike on its customers
arranged title
… and vote the indefinite strike. sorry.
union demands for related jobs are completely disconnected from reality.
i hope that legault, lacombe and lebel will release the special law asap.
email your mp.
explain your situation and say that you want the government to sign as soon as possible an agreement that makes sense for childcare workers.
i swear it does have an impact.
mps talk in caucuses, and it influences the government.
total acorres. question: $ 90 / child with more than 3000 children. where is that fucking money going ????
a strike is always imposed on customers, that's the principle! it is the employees who vote it.
you have to fall down to beat the demands of people who often spend more time with children than their own parents.
these are trades traditionally female therefore which end up with less good conditions. it's time for a catch-up.
maybe it's reality that is disconnected from itself. perhaps we should stop wanting to keep the status quo at all costs.
i hope you get hit with the oi special when your working conditions take a turn for the worse. it might give you some perspective.
why are the requests "disconnected"?
fuck yourself, when you see exploited people, who have made the choice to take care of young children, who try to improve their living conditions with the only way that is possible for them to do so (a strike), your reaction is to sulk on the internet and invoke a special law? are you ok it is with your big taxes that you pay their wages, defends the special law for the educators and they close the box? are their demands unreasonable according to your high judgment and high intelligence? what are you basing yourself on? your personal feeling? i hope you have a whole important job for society to allow you to spit high on people who are at the bottom of the social ladder and who are trying to improve their lot. calvary that there are humans without empathy and selfishness on earth. ask for a special law because you are angry-angry that educators dare to go on strike, pathetic and distressing.
ark...
is there a pre-made message in this regard? because i doubt that my praise above is not adequate lol
i love your hope ..... we are totally exhausted
the union's customers are the employees if you haven't understood
tell that to the csn ...
it's the union that votes, not the employees, nuance
anyway i'm guessing you're not unionized
downvote me as much as you want, it doesn't change that it's the employees and the parents who lose out.
and above all, for the same job description and skills, why are the salaries of childcare workers lower?
i take the cooks, who have their dep, and who work hard to offer healthy and varied meals, in addition to giving themselves to organize lots of surprises for the children.
why do they earn less than kitchen workers at a cisss?
the unionized employees of our cpe are on strike, and we support them.
our network of childcare centers is extraordinary, we must ensure its sustainability, and that does not mean offering better working conditions to those who carry the network at arm's length.
there is none for that, as far as i know.
be polite, courteous, without specifying your political allegiance, or you should be tigidou.
i have done this often before, and have always received a personalized response.
if your deputy is not at the caq, do not hesitate to put the responsible minister in cc and your e-mail.
lol la la csn it is even less true what you say. you could vote if you went to union meetings.
the amount of clown that has been off the trail for a couple of years to take a selfie is a thing of the past.
breaking: people who are outdoors (and i am) have a big impact on the environment
the world going over the edge to the acropolis for the perfect photo for their instagram, i call it natural selection😆
the most disappointing part of all this is the installation of damn fence, wooden stairs and other human installation, i get the idea, but that completely distorts the hike. i almost gave up the outdoors in quebec for the northern states which is wilder, with a lot more trails and longer trails!
edit: i've been hiking for 30 years, i spot the new temps and influencers pretty quickly ...
of course it has to stay wild, but a little security isn't bad. except that if you have the impression of setting up a gallery 5 km long, it's boring
it reminds me of mount washington, the main trail is a tata tourist highway, but you can get out and take more difficult trails and no more "tourists", it's really great. we have none of that in quebec, only easy trails.
as soon as the hike has more than 10km, you already have a lot less tourists, unless it is a famous one.
we did the mont nicol albert this summer and we met like 5 people in 8 hours. it changed the pen.
you have to be aware that if you want to do it, there are certainly other people who will want to do it too ... but it's kidding to hear matante ginette who cries that she is going to change her doors cabinets for 30 minutes at the top of mobt xalibu. farme your osti with eye.
the border trails in the zec louise-gosford are fun. the groulx mountains are a no worse challenge too. in short, there are a few places, but you have to find them!
cut through wood. the path is in your head.
meet a group that smells of perfume, a pure delight ...
the nicol-albert is a great challenge and as it is in the wildlife reserve it is a lot less crowded. when i do, i go through the western end of the matane wildlife reserve and not through the cap-chat zec. the path offers some beautiful views and i have already seen a golden eagle passing by, and lots of moose.
but the parc de la gaspésie is completely invaded by chest-arm douchebags that go for a hike in paunch and insta-babes in yoga pants and low-cut top who pass next to the "regenerating environment" signs to take a selfie. in a better spot.
when i started hiking 15 years ago you couldn't see that, even 5 years ago it was rare. so i don't hike popular places mid-season anymore, only spring and late fall.
i did the mont groulx, but you can't do that in a weekend! the feeling of loneliness was really great!
no. if you do this hunting in the back of a zec, we don't care, but if you do this in a sepaq park, everything will not be destroyed for long.
the one that triggers me is the oil changes with bluetooth speakers.
yes, it's magic! the trick is to work in nature, a big part of my job is to walk in the forest, very far from civilization. i experience this feeling almost every day that i work!
indeed, taking the mountain that belongs to no one is better.
edit: if you do this on the hunt put on your orange jacket please.
asti yes! it sucks in the city, in nature it's just rubbish!
esti, i don't understand this one.
you don't come in kind precisely to have peace and rest ?????? what is your problem.
i am sorry. did i speak out loud?
i'm curious! what is your job
i said more in the sense that if you're a hunter you can't really follow the trails. hiking in the hunting areas i strongly advise against it. much awareness has been done not to "pull the movement" but gnochons there are in all.
municipal employee here. full-time telecommuting (flexible to be honest, i can do as many days as i want).
the equipment provided: laptop, screen, keyboard, mouse and we were allowed to bring our office chairs.
i don't think compensation for internet or electricity is required. i'm already saving a lot of money and time by not having to travel. i also save a lot in clothes and on-the-go lunches. it's tempting to have some compensation for expenses, but i try to prevent my employer from saying “it's too complicated, we'll take you back to the office”!
i think it might settle down over time but not now, it's still too new and fragile.
for compensation for electricity, etc., see form t2200 during your tax return.
the bare minimum that should be provided is a laptop.
in my case, my employer provided a budget of $ 500 for the purchase necessary to work at home (office, screen, etc.)
portable + budget of $ 400 non-renewable that we had about 8 months later.
what i save in time and money more than compensates for my internet costs and my electricity. i wouldn't do this ... my boss with a split of a $ 52 internet bill and a room to heat, when i know what i'm saving in time, gasoline, operating costs for my car or if so, by train-metro.
laptop, keyboard, mouse, headphones, webcam, 2 screens. i only use the computer, screens and webcam though because i have better equipment at home.
$ 400 to equip yourself with office equipment (chair, desk, etc. but nothing computer, because it is supposed to be provided by the job). it was supposed to be once, but there are discussions to have another lump sum.
$ 12.50 / 2 weeks for the internet.
$ 400 for equipment or sports activities (to compensate for access to the free gym in the workplace).
we also had 5 more days off in 2021 which will be renewed in 2022.
i count myself among the lucky ones.
i have been in total tele-work since november 24, 2004. yesterday it had been 17 years since my professional life changed.
i share here my impressions without bragging or pride, just a simple testimony.
i am active in an it company. the name doesn't matter. i don't prefer to name people, places and brands.
short..
i even thought about it more on that date.
at that "time", we spoke of telework but it was a vague concept more than a reality.
on the one hand, there were people who didn't even believe that i was really working from home. there were also the jealous people who saw my "status" as an unfair privilege towards them.
okay, i'll skip the details of this stone age, but faxes and telephones were used and abused to the point of developing disgusting telephone conversations ... internet was already well established but at the time two phenomena were slowing down work. the width of the bandwidth which was 10x slower than today .. and the data consumption limitations on internet packages ..
skype helped a lot but we were a long way from teams and zoom .. then gradually, technologies improved a lot, phones got smart, the internet got mobile and faster and webcams were less blurry .. no cloud, no group software and let's not talk about the methods of companies that had not even arrived in the era of the pc ... and no social networks.
when i think back to all the stages we went through ... my god the world has changed.
instantaneity has crept in little by little to become the norm.
the virtualization of commercial acts has taken its place ...
in 2010, 6 years after i started as a tele-worker, the productivity benchmark was completely reversed.
i think i went from a test to a successful bet.
the hoped-for (even fantasized) objective was achieved: telework cost 3 times less than a cubicle workstation and the volume of work performed doubled compared to a floor employee ...
then everything was packed very quickly: cloud, network solutions swept everything away. the old world was losing relevance of "presence"
and from 2015 ... the phone started ringing less, then not ringing at all ... the fax had been virtualized for ages and paper printing was reduced by 10.
i have never regretted my choice. i had this privilege to choose this in 2004, i think it was the best decision of my life ..
my wife went to part-time teleworking in 2010 and then in 2013, she joined my club ...
our orientation has been to put all our equipment, which has become "infrastructure" over the years, in the basement. well lit, airy and clear. and especially well away from all the rest of our house.
we "go" to work by taking the stairs, we come back from work by going up ..
we have set a rule not to "eat full meals from home" at the "office" and therefore to take breaks when going back to the kitchen.
as for our clothing habits, i had never really thought about it ... so i worked 4 or 5 years in pajamas and then in "soft" linen.
today, we have gone a little crazy, we "dress" streetwear to go to the basement ....
so in march 2020 ... for us, nothing has changed at all .. incredible but i have absolutely nothing changed in my work habits despite the pandemic. when everyone started to become "we *" we got a little "scared" to tell the truth ...
finally, one of the side effects of a career in tele-work is that your neighbors end up imagining that you are a pensioner or that you make meth in your basement .. not seeing you leaving or returning from the job , neighborhood fantasies are rife.
since 2020 all this has disappeared.
so ... good .. answer your question about employer benefits and compensation, i don't even remember the starting rules. sorry.
today, all i see is that i keep my cars for 10 years or more and that i save a lot of my money on travel.
quality of life ? i have not developed loneliness, no obesity (worrying at least). i have developed a huge professional social network and i often go to lunch with a colleague.
time issue? i tested all the possibilities, night, day, non-stop, or without limit or without schedule. for time zone issues, i finally opted to start around 5am and "try" to finish before 1pm (when possible).
so the last point ... winter. in quebec cr *** it snows en masse! watching the snow fall and not taking off my pajamas while working hard, it almost makes me "cum * tab **** k!"
there you go .. thanks for reading me.
what do you think of a career in tele-work?
[deleted]
laptop, 2 screens, keyboard, mouse, headset, $ 1000 to purchase ergonomic office equipment.
everything was provided to me except the office ... 2 pc keyboard mouse screens ...
i was on partial telework when everything went into a spin. our agreement is that i bring my laptop home and it's up to me to equip myself to work from home (office, screen, keyboard, internet, telephone). it looks good since it was at my request.
since being on "forced" telecommuting (haha, as long as i can!), i have had the option of picking up my chair or whatever else i might have missed at the office. teleworking costs could be included in taxes, including a fraction of internet, heating, etc. but the amount was negligible.
my two cents: if an employer hires you to telecommute, he should provide you with a minimum of computer equipment. for compatibility, updating, hardware replacement and privacy issues.
i am at the federal level.
laptop, screen, keyboard, mouse.
we also have an amount of $ 500 to purchase office supplies (desk, chair, headset, paper, pencils, etc.), as needed.
if we leave our department, we must return the equipment that was paid for with the $ 500 (apart from paper, pencils, there.) it does not belong to us, like the rest.
i have two tele-jobs at the moment. each with their own computer. this summer, i even had a third; this one gave me an additional screen, a cell phone * and a keyboard (which i never used, i prefer mine). faque my office looks more like a nasa control room than a room transformed into an office at home ... (do the math: 4 laptops + a desktop with 2 screens each, plus the cell phone and a tablet).
and i'm glad i don't have to schlepper at the office every day, which makes up for the compensation that i don't have.
\* edith.
pornhub is provided by my employer.
i was provided with a 2nd screen laptop mouse and headset without further compensation.
my other compensation is the gas and the 3 hours of transport per day that i recover, it is indeed en masse!
i have everything! 2 screens, keyboard, mouse, cables and chair.
i wouldn't really ask for compensation for my internet costs, i wouldn't even know how to calculate how much energy my job pc takes on my hydro bill.
all the equipment (computer and screens), reimbursement of all the accessories i want up to a reference price (keyboard, mouse, webcam, headset, mouse pad, powerbar, ethernet cables, etc.)
phone provided if i need it, but i didn't take it.
reimbursement of $ 600 for desk / chair
reimbursement of $ 200 for air conditioning
internet allowance $ 100 / month
in itself, i receive what they would have budgeted at the office, but at home.
laptop, mouse, headset, $ 500.
i understand that the employer does not pay me a bonus for hydro / internet, so i changed jobs during the pandemic, i accepted this one because the salary suited me, taking into account the costs like hydro / internet precisely ...
plus, let's face it, it doesn't change my bills much. i don't have a job as a web designer that would make me transfer tons of media files every month, so i was able to keep the plan i had before. and hydro, how many people left at least one light on when they left to go to work? the only difference is that there is a laptop that runs 8 hours a day, 5 days a week. hydro tells me it costs an average of $ 5 per ... year.
however! i really think there is something to rethink in terms of housing. many employers will save a lot of office space. these spaces will remain vacant. but employees need a decent place in their home to look professional in videoconferencing. but it's not given to all families to have 5 bedrooms: one for the couple, one for each of the 2 children, a buresu for each parent. many colleagues are installed in their living room, in a corridor, on a corner of the table ... i think that we can do better, i don't think that it is up to our employers to pay us a mansion, but i don't think that 'an employee is necessarily able to afford more. perhaps part of the money saved by companies could pass through a tax to a special fund aimed at subsidizing the creation of housing adapted to telework and / or the purchase of such properties by workers?
i don't think it's a good idea to taunt the employer with our internet or electricity costs.
do you prefer the alternative of paying your uncompensated transport costs on congested roads or crowded buses / metro to get to the office?
let's not kill telework in the bud. there are still micromanagers who bite their nails with anxiety about not being able to stage above the shoulders of their employees in the cubicles. mandatory returns to the office have already started.
laptop, keyboard, mouse, screen and $ 250 (non-renewable) for miscellaneous expenses.
we took our pcs (and everything that comes with them), those who wanted, could leave with their chair.
i haven't checked that much, but seems to me to have had a minimum tax credit for that.
tablet, additional screen, mouse, keyboard, ergonomic chairs, cell etc. on the other hand i am in "forced" teleworking, this wue i appreciate a lot. i save more than 2h30 of travel per day.
this guy is living proof that love is in the meadow
new cheese now available: "the enjoying cow"
"a lover of cattle with a troubled soul" ...
this is how he thought he produced 35% cream.
how much of an option you miss to get to this ....
better than a child
kesser who's in the water in beauce ???
the problem is that afterwards the cows would try their hand on the farmer but he didn't want to know anything.
so the cows were in moozus.
the cow felt nothing.
it's a real vegan. he compensates for animal cruelty in his own way i guess.
that's what happens when you stuff someone else's cow.
if he had his own he would still be very happy!
the smartest way i've seen to say he stuffed a cow
\ [hmm, there's something wrong with the heights between the guy and the cow ... \]
> \ [joseph \] roy had been filmed entering heifers by a hunting camera installed by the owners of the premises who suspected suspicious activities in the barn after observing footprints in the snow around the building.
* for those who don't know, "heifer" is the feminine of "calf". *
ah, awesome! it is also animal pedophilia now!
proud supporter of maxime dernier.
was he shouting “animals are not food!”?
with butter, it's much better!
i love it better when they are dirty
like firmin gadouas who stuffs a sow in the series '' in the name of the father and the son ''.
it reminds me of the guy from st-léon who did that with his pig.
at least they're not going to put the cow to death like in the past.
this "influencer" is a real pillar of society ... no, but what a cancer, the very definition of a narcissist ...
he did this for the views and not to “test” people. it's stupid. people are desperate for views and likes.
it is forbidden to go on board when the doors are closing. they know who the fool that posted that asshole video is.
they just have to stop him to be upstairs when the doors close, and for good measure, hug him a charge of public mischief.
it will tame him ...
basically, it just covers pranks they see on youtube, but less funny.
there is also the girl who was pulled by an stm bus in winter ... don't know what happened to her anymore
instagrammeur lollll
it tires me a bit because if someone needs assistance in public, we will start to wonder if it's not a cauldron that just wants attention.
he and his buddies also made the blow in the cegeps of montreal to interrupt a course and to make the vaccine for views on instagram
like the fake video of the eagle that flew with a baby on mount royal a few years ago
there are 2 influencers (yikes) who have had 3-4 years in prison for causing a train to stop to make a tiktok video or other such digital waste.
oh yeah ... looks like they grabbed it and worse that they spent it in cash ...
it was a school project.
ooooooooooooo .... miam!
they put him on ice, it cooled his enthusiasm
at the same time it's dirty hardcore giving an eagle a baby for a school project. i don't know if it was the little brother of the filmmaker or the director? / s
edit: grammar
not here, though. if memory serves, that was in china. there it is for sure, not the same prices ...
it caused a chill in his family.
> i never want to shave white truffles on to asparagus for someone from toronto ever again in my life
in fact, la bottine souriante said it well: toronto's culinary specialty is margarine.
well, after the divers, the cooks and the waiters, now the restaurants are losing even the star chefs!
he'll be happy in the countryside, no baseball diamonds, no pedestrian streets or bike paths.
he's just going to get a little bored of making little cries in front of the tva cameras.
apart from knowing the mechanics yourself or having a family member or close friend who is a mechanic, it is practically impossible. the competition is so tough between the garages that for them it is worth pushing to sell parts even if the customer does not come back afterwards.
there's also that if you don't know much about mechanics, it's hard to know if what the mechanic is telling you is true. it pays to learn how a tank works and even to learn how to do some maintenance yourself. for example, pretty much anyone who goes to the trouble can change the oil and install tires in their driveway without a problem. changing the brake pads requires a little more ease with the tools but it is not witchcraft either, with the internet you can find the procedure specific to your vehicle. a tank is not a magic black box, it is not that hard to learn and in the end it pays off.
i don't want to promote but a good kickstart for basic knowledge would be to watch chris fix on youtube. with a little knowledge you will be able to challenge the garage. also, if they change parts, ask to get the old ones. we don't care about the piece as such but it gives them no choice to change for real. finally, when we come to see you in the waiting room to tell you that there are x things to do, ask to go see the mechanic who works on your car so that he shows it to you.
i remember i was going to a franchise garage, and he wanted to charge me like $ 500 to change a part related to my shocks in addition to like $ 1000 for the shocks and time. a beautiful bill has an estimated $ 1580.
i went to see a mechanic that a friend referred me to, he told me that the "part" in question is to weld on the car, you don't change that, if it sounds bad, it's because you've had a serious accident on your car worse that broke or that hooked, y'a looked, was in perfect condition.
my change my shocks for a fraction of the cost. it was my mechanic for quite a while.
references are often a good thing to do, otherwise you can look at the reviews on google casually, there may be some good red flag.
and at worst, if it's something expensive, you have nothing to lose, or not much to ask for a second opinion ....
$ 700 for a brake change? tabarnack, what are you up to for getting quoted?
knowing the mechanics briefly will prevent you from having to do without a lot, and some of the parts are often easily replaced by the user without any tools (eg air filter and cabin filter).
combining jobs together will also save you money if you are able to schedule your interviews in advance.
for example, if you have your winter tires changed at the garage, it's a good time to do brake and steering component maintenance (eg alignment) because the mechanic is going to have to remove the wheels anyway ( time savings billed if they do not operate on a flat-rate model). same deal for an oil change, the tank is already on the jack and the mechanic can take care of your tires at the same time as the oil change is done.
for around $ 200 at canadian tire, you are able to buy all the stock you need to do your oil and tire changes safely on your own. these are relatively simple maintenance to do, and it will allow you to familiarize yourself with your vehicle.
if you read a little, you will be able to figure out how to visually check for wearing parts like brakes and steering parts when you go to rotate between summer and winter tires.
you will be in a much better position to know if you are bullshit or not by the mechanic.
edit: if you want to do more specialized things like maintenance on your vehicle, canadian lends certain specialized tools for free 72 hours in exchange for a deposit of the value of the tool at the auto parts counter (refundable when the tool is returned) . that too can be a no worse way to save a ton of money.
edit: if you are a woman, it is boring to say, but you have a lot more mechanics who will try to do without you too quickly. : /
always ask for old parts afterwards. there are some who try.
it's a question of building a relationship with a mechanic / establishment. there will always be people crooked ...
but for the battery case, just to qualify, if he tested it properly and the force (the amperage? i have a blank ...) is indeed low, it could have failed to leave the car below a certain temperature. that didn't happen to you, good! but if he hadn't said it and the battery was indeed dead 2-3 months later, who would have been to blame? the mechanic just backed up, leaving you the choice. it's just that there are some who explain less than others.
something that i noticed, in quebec, the very new young owners of small garages have less the culture of crossage for the fear of winter breakage or the end of station wagons. looks like they have a more ethical sense and more aware of the risk of "one stars" on google ...
i advise you to check the internet beforehand and possibly spot a young tit in your corner who has nice comments. and also, a trick is to put a sentence or two like: we put the car on the lift yesterday at my brother-in-law, ... and let believe in a few futile words that you know very well the condition of wear parts of your vehicle. the mechanic will be inclined to be more precise and fairer in his advice and diagnosis. good luck.
always ask for data, specifications, measurements, to see the failure in question, to have your defective components replaced, etc. the guy is gossiping you anything not to provide you with this information: decalisse.
are my brakes finished? what is your brake pad and rotor measurement, and what is the manufacturer's specification? ah ok, put it all in writing please. my battery is dead? what is your measurement tool and will i be able to see the report it came out?
word of mouth is the best way to put the odds in your favor. for the rest, everything is measured and everything has a limit tolerance defined by the manufacturer to justify a replacement: act as on reddit, assuming that everyone bullshit you (kidding) and asking for data (paying).
i'm going to go a little against the tide. we generally suggest finding a good mechanic and building a relationship of trust. i find it hard and it is often in the medium long term that the abuses happen. with those who have let their guard down.
a pattern that i have noticed often for having done a lot of garages in a lot of regions / provinces. when you arrive in a new garage, you are a possible new clientele, so the least you mention another garage, we will give you more lax diagnoses and cheaper solutions to get you. so that you say to yourself, wow him he does not shove me! after a few meetings, when you're confident, boom we start the abusive diagnoses again.
basically never stop double-checking. there are very few places where we will not grease ourselves a little if you are not family / friend.
find a garage you trust and stick to it.
also, you have to ask your mechanic questions. the best trick i found at first was asking what color he would classify the wear on the part in.
* green = 60% + good condition and some wear. you're good for a long time
* yellow = to be changed soon. in the next 3 months.
* red = danger. to be changed immediately or at the pc. it's dangerous.
(this is a brief explanation for the color system)
i have my trusted mechanic.
i'm confident he's always going to cram me just a little, and i'm comfortable with that level of spending.
i know he gives himself basic courses in auto mechanics, nothing too long, like a day or two and the goal is exactly to give you just enough knowledge so that the mechanics can not tell you anything . there are probably also basic interview courses.
i don't have more details, it's not something i need, but i remember seeing some posts on fb about it.
it would be worth your search for a bit in my opinion, it can really make the difference when it comes to detecting fraudsters or untrustworthy ones.
as others say, you have to know the mechanics, i started to take an interest in it at the beginning of covid and since that time, i hardly go to the garage anymore, sometimes i need it because i cannot work with oil in my parking lot, but it has always been a disappointment ever since, i went to 4 garage in 3 years, both local garage of excellent reputation and dealer that canadian pulls and they all disappointed me, their<inspection> find less obvious problems than i find, repairs are regularly overpriced ($ 180 for what took me 20 min and $ 8 ...), maintenance / repairs are not as good or use not as good quality parts as i can make and you have no flexibility over when you do the repair. right now, if i calculate my hourly mechanic rate, i'm around $ 40 / hr or more (if you don't count the wasted time i spend on youtube that i would spend anyway procrastinating ...). it's not as much as my job, but not that far and i like it so i really think it's worth it ...
i'm not sure what to tell you, we've been dealing with the same family garage for more than four generations.
if i didn't have the choice to change i would choose a place with good traffic which is often a guarantee of quality and also their specializations for example my guys also take care of the sq tanks it usually gives a good idea of professionalism.
the brakes on a tank are pretty good now.
just the discs and pads on my 2016 golf that i changed myself was $ 360 (my dad at good prices direct from distributors). in a garage i have no problem believing that i would have been charged $ 700.
on a bigger vehicle it's easy $ 1000 to redo the brakes.
if it's the 4 break pads, i have no problem believing in $ 700
$ 700 discs / pads / time now it's not that exaggerated, i think my winter beater is around $ 4-500 when it's rusting.
my summer tank the dealer had quoted me above $ 4000 at the time, and it was not so bad as a price. right now, just the records, it's $ 2200 usd if i buy them myself
are you a primary school teacher by any chance?
4k what are you driving ??? an amg ???
put a smiley face if so, and a smiley face below if not.
i think a 3rd link could be practical in a way, but not if it comes out in the city center of qc and even less if it is to make it the biggest tunnel on the fucking planet ...
such a ridiculous project.
we're not even able to maintain two bridges, but of course, we're going to dig the biggest tunnel in the world.
claude villeneuve, and the entire political class of quebec apart from quebec transition and quebec democracy, they are cowards osti.
they spent the entire electoral campaign refusing to comment on the third link, playing their tape criss "we don't have enough details we'll see" and now that the elections are over bang! it is an idea of marde.
no backbone osti, soft blanks unable to assume their positions in front of the electorate. if we were 2 years later with new plans i say not, there are just idiots who never change their mind.
but there are just idiots who change their mind 2 weeks after an election.
the third link is the equivalent of adding arteries to someone who doesn't take care of their cholesterol and who has blocked arteries: it just delays the real problem, it costs too much money for nothing, worse would not need it if you took the necessary measures so that it does not block.
we just have to elect a new government in 1 year to bury the project for a generation.
if the caq still wins a majority, we agree that the project will take up all the space.
and the pierre-laporte bridge, which is exactly the same age as the old champlain bridge, what do we do with it? i am against the pharaonic tunnel project, but i am for a medium-term replacement for pierre-laporte. we have the choice to wait a little longer, but we risk waking up urgently to replace it if we wait too long.
to say that people are against the 3 rd link is completely false, especially in the region of quebec and lévis.
but i agree that i would prefer a link that goes through the île d'orléans like half tunnel half bridge.
in the same way, people are against the tram because it is a project that will clog the streets and probably be less efficient than buses. but i don't know anyone who is against a more efficient and structured public transport system.
here is. what people for the 3rd link don't seem to understand is that it's the project itself that gets rejected, not the idea of making a 3rd link per se. i can't believe that there is no other viable alternative to a 3rd link other than the one offered for the modest sum of $ 10 billion (without the overruns which will obviously be as high as the initial valuation itself. ) ...
this is my major point against the project. nobody in the world has a drille (reminds me of the real name) big enough to dig the tunnel, so we're going to have to build the drille first? fuck it, it's failure for sure.
what ?
no party has a chance to win
the pierre-laporte bridge is at 50% of its estimated lifespan. so he has a good 50 years left. the champlain bridge was just poorly designed.
the laporte bridge is good for a long time to come, it is not at all comparable to champlain
there are lots of people who live in qc or levis who are against
frankly, you shouldn't take the bridges often to think that alternating lanes on the bridge at rush hour can work
a third link in the form of a metro / tram tunnel, city center to city center, a good incentive parking offer on both sides. bam! 8 billion to save and suddenly you have a base on which to continue to develop for decades to come.
> (reminds me of the real name)
tunneler but it's clear that we understood what you meant.
see the distinction between the adjectives "big" and "long" ...
unfortunately...
the champlain bridge was well designed ... beautiful, good, not expensive. except we weren't supposed to put any salt on it. whoops.
is quebec still lucky to have a man of the competence of pierre fitzgibbon in the government?
there is an ostit of problem to be stuffed of the same ... la ta always the argument yes but the liberals yes but the liberals ..
we deserve better..we just ask for transparency ... not complicated ... we don't care whether red-green-blue-orange ... we can you just have a little ostit ethics. .. behave like an 8 to 4 job ... be present ... do your job and that's it
so they like it fitzgibbon the caq. asti, i am fed up with corruption in government. if a chartered accountant would have done 1/10 of what trudeau and fitzmoilesac did ethically, that accountant would have lost his title.
why does it always go to government?
> they come from the temporary concerted action program for enterprises (pacte), which was managed by investissement québec (iq). iq and the ministry of economy and innovation (mei) had made the program criteria public.
> this did not prevent several companies whose aid request was for more than $ 5 million or which had already established a business relationship with iq from obtaining pacte loans without meeting its criteria, underlines the report. audit.
> the minister authorized these 10 problematic loans on the basis of analyzes and recommendations produced by the specialized financing and major accounts sectors of iq.
wasn't it precisely at iq that there had been political interference to nominate a close friend of fitzgibbon?
where is the member here who told me not even 3 days ago that the caq has no history of corruption and who continued to persist and call me a "qsiste" after i appointed fitzgibbon?
it's not an exact science, but it's written in his face that just works for his wallet
this is a buzznizz man !!!
it's hard to attract a buzzznizz man in politics
starting off, the caq is too opaque and there he directs without having to give an account. i look forward to the commission of inquiry on the commission of inquiry.
if an official would have done 1/10 of what they did they would have been fired for cause
yep, guy leblanc. [here at 3 minutes 30] ( they discuss. and at 4 minutes 35 legault goes there with a ferocious "i. do. dois. nothing. to. person". it's uh, pretty sorry.
here are copied and pasted excerpts from his comments because it's just so funny
> for the moment, there is not so much corruption scandal emanating around the caq. we are far from the plq, so no it is not hypocritical to say of a corrupt party, that it is corrupt.
then i who say:
> you should find out about minister pierre fitzgibbon…
his :
> are we making the list of corrupt liberals? are there any cases of liberal interference with the upaq for delaying or canceling trials?
in short whataboutism
to end his text with
> typical qsiste.
put some on. if we could really still judge someone by their looks, i would say they got us solid. it seems like a rich man that you don't really know what he does for a living when you're a kid because adults don't really want to explain it to you too much.
legault runs quebec as if it were his business, of course he thinks he owes no account to anyone.
i wrote this earlier on fb because i just can't take any more. it's not about fitz but it's the same:
`` it is not because i have sinned that i cannot preach ''
i do not particularly like dominique anglade but the silliness of the kind "shut up, you can not say anything the liberals did much worse" to defend the caq, it is not an argument that holds up. if indeed the caq screwed up in the chslds at the beginning of 2020, they are responsible for it. not the charest liberals, no matter what they do to us. it seems to me that we know that since the small school that you cannot defend yourself by accusing others of doing worse.
it is a very funny world to be one where you cannot accuse someone without being blameless.
i would have killed to go see them at the "salon des amis".
my parents were full of goodwill, brings me and my sister there, and worse ... there were so many people, it was disgusting. just waiting to pay and coming back was endless.
they finally convinced us to go to the biôdome instead.
wait, was the lip sync really that bad?
i remember it hahaha!
i remember seeing them when they were still just doing spice girls songs. the girls in the crowd were raving like they were in front of the real spice girls. there was a lip sync contest and everything.
> they finally convinced us to go to the biôdome instead.
i hope renaud was not there! / jk
legault doesn't like being criticized ...
is it freaks me out to see our precious dollars wasted by paying this world to think about the meaning of words and technicalities, calisse you can settle real affairs instead of acting like a bunch of 'children.
legault clearly has a micro penis.
the worst thing is that no one at the caq, the plq and the pq can criticize. they are all responsible for the current situation of chslds either as a government, or as an opposition which has remained seated without doing anything.
special mention to marguerite blais!
don't like it? he is not able at all. it comes off its hinges instantly.
the world here hates duhaime, but i am already looking forward to the debates in which duhaime will completely blow up legault so that more quebecers discover the true face of this politician. we will have good content for the archives.
shit you're a conspirator
/s just in case..
*i demand a trial by combat*
> ... this world to think about the meaning of words and technicalities ...
yes, especially since it is often non-answers to questions which seek more to make appear bad than to obtain a real answer. we go around in circles while the going is urgent.
ridiculously small. his ego compensates.
i am considering voting you down and i am considering upvoting you at the same time
and he calls everyone who disagrees with him as conspirators ha ha ha. is that funny. for me it's just proof that he knows what he's doing is wrong.
'' i'm the boss, it's me who decides '' was enough to make me discover the true face of legault.
i am far from being a fan of duhaime and it is sure that he will not have my vote, but in my opinion legault is really a problem more than a solution. i'm rather new to air quebec, but let's just say that i don't hide too much my feelings towards ti-coq legault and his misplaced squeal of pride. for me it represents everything that needs to be changed with quebec.
i do not believe that duhaime's arrival in politics is positive for quebec. moreover, i believe that the same results can be achieved by blowing up legault with people who are much less polarizing than right-wing populism à la duhaime.
i want to shit and i don't talk about it ... oh wait a minute
like the world on this sub haha
if legault and duhaime can tear the conservative votes against each other, quebec will be the winner!
i agree with you, but where are these people? it is in 11 months the elections.
not everyone, but the vast majority which, fortunately, is itself a minority in quebec. 😅
quite interesting as a blog! i'll keep an eye out for a bottle of p'tit rouquin, it's definitely worth getting to know the local vineyards.
there are so many good wines in quebec, unfortunately lost in a sea of commercial vinegar.
i would tell you that saint-gabriel wines taste like vinegar too.
it was a general observation, i don't know them.
sucks.. :/
a boyfriend is a boyfriend
ah yes pi when an individual owes them 78 cents they chase after you as if it were a top 10 of americas most wanted.
[in the duty] (
"a loan was granted to a company that was experiencing significant difficulties before the pandemic. a few months after receiving pacte's assistance, it placed itself under the protection of the companies' creditors arrangement act.
another company was finally deemed eligible for the pacte after being initially refused by a regional iq office. iq's specialized financing sector then issued a favorable opinion to this company.
"the company does not present historical or forecast profitability", however, notes the verification report made public on wednesday.
one loan was used mainly to cover construction costs and debt repayment, expenses which were not, however, eligible for the pacte program. "
guys do we have to keep the emergency measures mkay?
i'm glad that at least my job didn't have the nerve to take it even though we were accessible.
oh, the bill is waiting for us. it will be gigantic, unpleasant and we will even have the pleasure of bequeathing a good part of it to our children and them, to theirs!
but, what do you want, there is no luck there! we stay the course :)
but no, there is still the good old grace for sums under $ 2, they are not monsters ...
2.78 $, there on the other hand attach your hat with the brooch: p
isn't iq the department under the discretionary control of our good friend fitzgibbon?
"captain! captain! there's an iceberg, straight ahead!"
"when in doubt, gas up!"
* accelerate while preparing to turn as close to the ice mass as possible. *
"cap ... captain?"
"toé, don't distract me, i'm trying to save my ship!"
~~ the hosts ~~ [the crew.] (
el gas at the end?
i begin :
nelligan reste mon all-time favorite
very closely followed by gaston miron
i never published anything.
i destroyed the equivalent of a book in an episode of total disillusionment and i regret it.
marie uguay's poetry touches me enormously. otherwise, i recently fell in love with native poets like joséphine bacon, natasha kanapé fontaine and marie-andrée gill. i also really liked the collections * la femme cent couleurs * by lorrie jean-louis and * coeur yoyo * by laura doyle-péan. classically, i like miron and nelligan.
my favorites, all eras combined: frédéric dumont, tony tremblay, st-denys garneau, miron, josée yvon, gilbert langevin, hélène monette ... really too many to name them all.
like you never published but in another life i had the equivalent of a couple of collections at one point, i had even started discussions for publication. and then the time passed, the desire and the inspiration withered away and it stayed there on my old blog and it's okay like that.
speak white is one of my favorite poems.
genevieve desrosiers
marie uguay
...
patrice desbiens, always excellent! an adopted quebecer, a franco-ontarian from timmins by birth.
a little-known quebec poet who i really liked: réjean plamondon. his collections * ecritude * and * rebel portraits of a cervonaut * are worth a look.
rage-destroyed?
mathieu boily, marjolaine beauchamp, sébastien dulude. my most recent favorite is camille readman-prudhomme.
i published a few failed poems in obscure journals several years ago, but nothing as transcendent as mathieu boily!
i won a glass (pint) and a bottle opener in an aiku competition. #thank you good night
charles baudelaire in french and emily dickinson in english.
informed adult who thinks while reading,
try to read between the lines, the backbiting version
internship journalist who interprets the poems
of mc mountain in his space mountain.
grab them by the poesie
> i destroyed the equivalent of a book in an episode of total disillusionment and i regret it.
we eat a lot to have done that my friend :(
i don't have much to say other than:
i hope tabarnac.
it was the only fair verdict.
if they hadn't broadcast the video of the murder, they wouldn't even have been tried ...
good. three oil changes out of order!
good riddance!
that was the only possible verdict. the legal interpretation around which the defense had built its case was contradicted by the judge's instructions to the jurors. and even if it hadn't been, the defense was pretty thin. they had no right to kill him.
you would see the right-wing subreddits go "yes, but ...", that's really disgusting.
that's one of the dirty things about this business. the local police were on the side of the 3 white men
with justice in the united states, when the video came out, i was very worried about the future verdict!
i don't know why you're downvoted. you are absolutely right
it must be because you don't know the law well in the united states. nobody thought that the verdict was going to be favorable to the accused
it is not a question of knowing the american law, it is more a question of recognizing the systemic racism in the united states… we remember the case of trayvon martin. her killer is free
trayvon martin's killer is free because the da went too hard with the charges.
it doesn't change my point. racism is so ingrained in the us that they didn't care. if they really wanted to get justice for trayvon, they could have done it. go back to court, lay new charges.
i don't see why you downvote. the united states is probably the most racist country of the western countries. i'm not even going to insist on it.
i don't downvote you my little snowflake
they cannot lay new charges for the same crime. the prosecutor missed his shot and it is he who is responsible for the acquittal
lol flake? go troll elsewhere. if you're lowkey angry at the verdict, this is not your place here.
it depends. this can be done if the charges are at the federal or state level
honestly, with the detours and the roadworks, it's such a crappy drive to drive downtown that parking isn't even a factor for me.
it should have been the public transport (at least the bus) that we make free in the evening, but it's probably not the same authorities that decide that
truly. even when i walk there, all the closed streets piss me off too much.
such. i work downtown and my company pays me parking in downtown parking lots. i don't even take it so much it's shit to go anyway
well this is military language and has been for a long time ...
also, if you look at the first column, these are first and last names.
i can hardly see myself naming a child quebec without being ashamed of my life.
should update: "k" as in kéveune.
i'm just happy not to call me kléber
because they only took first names? and quebec doesn't have one?
i don't know where you found it, but during military service in france in the 1980s, my father learned the right column ...
where did this come from?
because quebec is a british colony.
uh what is it supposed to be. they're changing the code ??
it will be even worse if the child is small.
i know someone called jean-québec. it's his name. for real.
s like steeveune
not with that attitude, that's for sure ...
interesting, i just found it on google. i was curious, i found it funny that they have numbers like kléber * excuse my french
it is hindu.
* "chu desc-hindu in my garden, i like it when it's teeming ..." *
it's been since 1867 that we are no longer a british colony ...
is good!
it's cheezy like joke ca ...
i'll take your word for it and the only thing i can answer to that.
f
*«tiii la di la didi la didi»*
aweille a longueuil-laval tunnel!
the lafontaine tunnel was technically deposited at the bottom of the st. lawrence. its construction cost 75 million at the time.
in fact, he doesn't need a tunnel, he's a shrink. legault has an existential crisis and he tries to immortalize his existence by creating a project that matches his ego. phenomenon which will henceforth be known in psychology under the principle of "légault".
an 8.3 km “carbo-neutral” according to minister bonardel. he would have to think about resigning that one. it's starting to be awkward.
"the lhypolite bridge"
- my grandmother
“the minister of transport says it could be, since he did something similar in minecraft. "
8.3km x 19.4m is about 2.5million cubic meters.
the olympic stadium is 1.8million cubic meters ... we will finally have enough to fill it!
so that's a long time! it seems to me that the distance between quebec and lévis is shorter than longueuil-montreal ...
i'm trying to figure out why it's so long?
thanks for sharing. very interesting to be able to visualize the gigantism of the project.
source : ce [tweet](
it is made to ploguer lévis in saguenay? if so, i don't want to know anything. i stay in alma and i will never make a detour through lévis to go anywhere. wtf
you should compare it with the ville-marie tunnel which is, it seems to me, in the 10-15 longest road tunnels in north america.
if the 3rd link were built, it would be the longest in north america and by many
me, i like blue, it's going to be bô / s
fool project criss. imagine the maintenance.
the tunnel in montreal has monster traffic every time that has to be done ... imagine a tunnel 4 times longer ... 4 times more work.
i don't even understand why we hear about it, who is the fucktard trying to push this project?
every politician wants to "leave his mark" like an emperor, a way to be remembered him / her .... but hey, we have yours for eh :)
i wonder how the italians manage to pay ... the road between rome and florence i swear to you is like 30% of tunnels, some of which you say to yourself `` see damn it, we are going to get out ''
wow anyway.
i can't wait to have my damn tunnel
a good proof that this project is even more stupid than it looks. and he already looks incredibly stupid.
it looks like me who compares myself with my girlfriend
good luck lol.
with covid going back all over europe at the moment?
bad idea unless you want to re-apply sanitary measures for the holidays.
instead of the tourist industry, i would keep myself from being embarrassed about covid-19.
don't think it's gonna happen anytime soon ...
it is not possible for a tourist to come to canada if he is not fully vaccinated and it is virtually impossible for a canadian to go out or return to the country if he is not vaccinated.
knowing that vaccinated people are not the biggest vectors of transmission at the base, there may be a way to stay safe without requiring a pre-departure test at $ 2-300 to enter the country. it could go through an antigen test for example, which would already be much less restrictive. or it could be the use of rapid tests on arrival in canada, which would at least leave the option of going to quarantine in your home if you are positive.
> it is not possible for a tourist to come to canada if he is not fully vaccinated and it is virtually impossible for a canadian to go out or return to the country if he is not vaccinated. [...]
> or it could be the use of rapid tests on arrival in canada, which would at least leave the option of going to quarantine at home if you are positive.
for canada-us travel, i pretty much agree. but it's the international travelers in general that we're talking about here, so they would have to be in quarantine ... internationally where they're from, so that doesn't make any difference to what i understand.
then even the pcr test ... what is three days the limit? you have time to be infected while waiting for the result, on your way to the airport, etc. apart from the price, i do not see how it is restrictive. we are still in a pandemic, and although i can not wait to be in the future and be able to return abroad (and no longer have to hear about it), the fewer measures there will be to prevent the spread of the virus. , the longer we will wait. the good airlines are all offering free deferrals right now, that i know of (air canada can still go eat a tank, i lost ~ $ 700 in a plane ticket back to canada at the start pandemic).
so really, i don't see it. that's my opinion, but tourism right now is kind of the last business that needs to be helped.
it is precisely the 72 hours of the test that makes the whole thing a little pointless in itself. this means that you can go on vacation to a place that is rather lax on the measurements, be careful until your test and then party for 3 days without being prevented from coming back to canada. and it's the same for an american who comes for a meeting in toronto on monday morning for the job: he can get tested on friday and party all weekend without it preventing him from coming here afterwards.
among all people arriving in canada at this time, the rate of positive for pre-departure or random-arrival tests is almost zero, which proves to us not badly that vaccinated travelers are not a major vector of transmission. i understand that we want to remain cautious, but the measures taken must still be useful for something.
once again, why not settle for antigen testing and impose pcr testing? even federal public health has expressed doubts about the need for pcr at any cost.
i have no problem with a measure like this test if it is really effective, especially since travel is often a luxury. it's just that at the moment there isn't much to indicate that it's really necessary to contain the virus here and, when you think about the fact that we will be able to spend 3 days in the us, no mask, nothing without test while it costs $ 1200 to test to go spend christmas with the family in norway where there is hardly any circulation of the virus, that rings false i think.
what you are saying makes sense and quite reasonable despite the fact that i oppose it and that tourism to and from europe and asia should for the moment be banned as long as the situation does not exist. will not be under control.
but regardless of my opinion, and indeed, we don't really have any data to prove that the measures work (or not), your argument holds and is quite reasonable.
cottage are in high demand for the holidays. do you have a car to go there? cottage are usually outside montreal or quebec...
not in the forest but really close to grocery stores, the bus and train station and quiet:
where are you located?
no car, no candy
find an air b an b in "le petit champlain" this should be a holiday you'll remember for a longtime (one of the most beautiful abd touristic place of the city). near the port, under a km from the fortification and upper town. 
this it is
sadly no car, nor driving skills :( but i'm happy to walk a couple miles from a train or bus station. this is really the most annoying limitation..
haven't you heard ? owning a car only gives you the illusion of freedom ! let the man be free to go wherever someone else decided it would be worthwhile to go.
wow this looks pretty awesome! thanks a lot!
city of montréal
but daddy wants his candy
hahaha... i wish i could drive tbh. i just never learned. i try to make up for it by being very open-minded about walking long distances
it's on my bucket list. there's a spa nearby and amazing places where to take a walk.
go for high tea at the chateau frontenac if you're in the area.
absolutely!
wear it as a badge of honor to be in the sights of zionists and israel.
apparently we tolerate israel coming to intimidate our province.
the 15% who downvote this serious post, what is the reason ...
if this site exists, it is so that employers or teachers can disadvantage people, it is literally a continuation of their desire to segregate the palestinians and reduce them to the status of 2nd class citizen.
there should be absolutely no tolerance for this kind of site, on the contrary we should drop the hammer of the law heavy in tabarnak on those who created it.
you create an anticanarymission site
it's so weird and not the first site of its kind. in my opinion, you can just ignore it.
looks like this site was created in reaction to canary mission
i would go see it and maybe you can get in touch with others who are like you victims and in a group, try to shut down the site?
lol judith butler is named, this is really a jerk site.
the level of attention to data is mind-boggling, like open-air espionage.
in theory, you could sue the site for defamation and for your image rights. it's complicated and it could backfire on you.
the police? media?
personally, i would look more towards making a gdpr or ccpa style complaint. they might say it's public information, but unless your facebook profile (and whatnot) is public, i don't think it matters. you have a right to be forgotten and if these clowns don't comply with the law, it can cost them dearly.
by the way, does anyone know if we have a gdpr law in quebec or in canada and if so, what's its nice little name?
tse when you have several un resolutions accusing you of a crime against humanity but it's those who denounce you the crooked ones
depending on what they write about you, you may be able to sue for defamation and take legal action.
maybe a canadian or quebec regulation protects your privacy and your personal information. this site also seems to constitute a file of people without displaying the slightest reference to a declaration to any organization, in france it is strictly prohibited and the administrators of this site would be condemned almost automatically.
contact a lawyer to explain your situation and your possible remedies, the first consultation is generally free.
in any case, get in touch with your political representatives to expose the problems posed by this site as well as the amalgamation which is made there between "anti-zionism" and "anti-semite", on the dangers of the registration of individuals, etc ...
the more people know about these practices, the better it will be and maybe the government will get involved.
should not be very serious as a site ...
i did a search for “borat” it didn't give anything
good subject for the media. but… beware the streisand effect.
i almost feel like writing to the site asking them to add me to their list.
i have no shame in criticizing israel's treatment of palestine, and if a company will not hire me for this reason, it is a victory in my book.
it looks a lot like what the gestapo did in the 1940s.
"the operators of the website have maintained their anonymity, justifying their secrecy by saying that "many of our detractors just want to know who we are so they can physically harm us. "
oh! here then. funny that for a doxxing site.
it's still sad to see this level of extremist among the zionists and the worst part is that our government is funding them.
it must be very confusing to find yourself on a list like that.
what's this site?
it's very anti-semitic of you! / s
zionist osti.
> he also intends to challenge the legitimacy of the crown to lay charges.
it promises.
the conspirators in action, ladies and gentlemen
parasites since the day of their birth.
it smells of dropping out of school, social assistance and indian cigarettes for miles.
20 days of trial, just the judge it's going to cost us almost $ 30,000 ....
nice gang of parasites.
and it's going to bawl that the system is corrupt.
however, the trial is public, they will have the opportunity to bring out all the impossible and unimaginable arguments, they can say whatever they want, it will be recorded, transcribed and public. none of their brilliant arguments will be erased. we will not even have to trust the journalists, corrupt to the bone themselves, of course, we can go ourselves the transcript of the trial.
what a beautiful gang of cones! to see them, you would think they had come straight out of the deepest valleys of the appalachians ...
anyone know why they're dressed like biker clowns on the bs? it's a weird bin, it looks like a uniform ...
i don't like making judgments like that but this world reminds me of the little 65-year-olds who decide who are "cool" and who spend their welfare checks on a harley davidson motorcycle and manage to make the most noise to make sure you're looking at them in the street 🤔
to the number of conspirators in quebec, the 3rd link will be jammed 24/7
the same article title anytime between 2000-2019 one would have thought it was a text by martineau et cie who shit about unions.
it smells of contempt of court before day 4! who takes the bets?
in view of the announced duration of the trial, i will have to go buy myself a cup of boxes of popcorn ...
because they come from racist far-right groups, and that makes them look tough. ah worse it looks like it's like $ 750 the jacket + the ceremony with god farfadaaas in person.
before the great chief farfadass received his donations by defending the white man against the racialized invader, and now they have found something more profitable, the fear of vaccines and the government, it reaches even more people.
when it is all over, they will once again become a "simple" group of racists who live off donations from racist people.
suddenly an oute saydeur
i just tested and it's no joke.
a sub-dog what.
underestimated*
i would say * challenger *
someone who is not seen as likely to perform?
/ r / rance would be proud
these borrowings from english are typically french. when the french have not invented the thing but they adopt it, suddenly they refer to it by its english name. too lazy to translate it into french. "outsider" comes from the world of equestrian races [it is the horse that wins the race by not being among the favorites] and as the french did not invent the derbies they designated the "derby", outsider "derbies" outsider ”same phenomenon with“ smartphone ”,“ email ”,“ sex-shop ”, etc.
similar problem for me with japanese. often, i enter an english word and it gives me the same but pronounced with japanese sounds.
an underdog is someone who has little chance of succeeding or winning, often used in the context where the underdog ends up succeeding / gangering.
one left behind.
so let's see hahaha
translated into french from france.
and i who always believed that it was "underdog" ...
#:(
translation of outsider in french: outsider
i don't think "outsider" is a good translation anyhow. maybe "underperformer"
maybe "outsider" was adopted by french speakers, same way germans use "handy" for "cell phone"
it seems to me that we can also say black horse but i'm not quite sure
online dictionaries also translate it as "outsider" anglicism. it's strange.
i don't think we can translate that into one word, it would be rather "likely loser".
r/trouduction
in france at the moment, there is a sports betting advertising campaign in quite a few stations with the slogan "rockcule dans le game *" with the asterisk which refers to a translation at the bottom of the poster. the proposed translation is "game = match".
it reminds me of one of my student jobs in a chocolate factory / creamery in old quebec. they just hired teenagers because they were the only ones to tolerate poor working conditions, when you're a student with no experience you have no choice. i was doing shifts from 5pm to midnight without a break with an unpaid close hour and got kicked out for using ice cream after 11pm when i was on the verge of falling apart. they accused me of “theft”. at some point when you underpay your employees who are mostly between 16-19 years old and who have no notion of labor standards, you are the thief. today they are on the verge of going out of business ... karma's a bitch.
heard from the mouth of a manager in my job: "we are short of people at the cash desks, so to fill our hours we will force all our cashiers to work 40 hours a week, from monday to friday, non-negotiable."
we are talking here about a student job that is aimed at students, so people who by definition have at least one other major occupation that takes up most of their time. an occupation that they value more than their minimum wage job, it's a safe bet.
more than half of the cashiers therefore resigned in the following weeks and the manager in question has no idea what could have happened.
the great mysteries of our time.
"no no, it's the profit margin that's too small .... we can't give $ 2 more an hour, that would put us out on the street. let them do like everyone else and hope to great tips to make ends meet "- just about everyone here who is defending the current model.
i work in a shopping mall store. i have pretty good insurance, relatively frequent increases, we hire above the minimum wage, we often have draws / contests with prizes of $ 500 + for employees and as soon as you work more than 15h / week t have bonuses.
it's funny, but since the start of the pandemic we have never lacked staff. we had departures and we immediately found people. during this time, 3/4 of the stores don't even close at 9 p.m. on thursday / friday because they lack staff. i chatted with employees of other stores and there are managers who are paid less than me, although i am just a normal clerk.
i wonder what my store chain is doing that is different from others? / s
the capitalist model is incompatible with the current essential needs in particular the cost of living and without mentioning housing.
modern slavery? no thanks.
companies with executives who make hundreds of thousands a year, who do not understand why their minimum wage employees do not have the same passion as them for their job, that they do not want to sacrifice their families and their health for it. that we offer them.
[to be lazy at the job is to be a good capitalist.] (
"the government must help me bring cheap labor from the international market."
"if i could pay them less, i would!"
i dont speak french at all but i think i understand enough to get it, so yea fuck greedy employers.
op you forgot in the last box to blame the pcu benefits
so true. a bakery near us closed recently and the owner was crying in front of the media. she didn't even want to pay $ 20 an hour and 4 weeks vacation ... if she's not ready to give the bare minimum i'm glad she's going bankrupt
they just have to hire pierre-yves mcsween for their pr companion.
[link] (
>! economic decline! <
the flip side of the capitalist's coin is that the one who succeeds in exploiting his employees and offering better prices has an advantage over the one who does not. whether through relocation, immigration or young people without experiences easy to exploit.
at least in quebec, the power relationship between employer and employee is reversed and he took it for granted, that's good to see.
a cheap employer with a troubled soul.
do you have anyone who uses the word "valiant" in this sense besides the boomers who bitch against the younger generations?
valiant: courageous, courageous, who faces difficulties without failing, who is willful. so someone who puts on his panties and dares to tell his boss to eat shit instead of lowering his head in the face of the difficulties of the working world or waiting for someone else to defend the interests of the workers in his place is a valiant person.
the "shortage" is bullshit. employers have almost impossible hiring conditions that just take advantage of the few jobs. it's also a way for them to wash their hands of their failure to hire more people, like "it's not me who doesn't want to hire, there's just a shortage of manpower, good!"
if the success of your business model depends on the exploitation of those who are its architects, it will not survive such a change. and maybe that's all the better.
i've been saying this to those around me for a while, but the world is too confused in their business to understand something.
fast food and other low-cost services are set to decline significantly. there will be a lot of closure.
if we don't want to pay more for their services then they will close. this will mean that we don't really need it. if for a few dollars more per lunch we don't want to go, then this kind of service is not essential and therefore only a handful will remain in the end that will remain open with competitive wages.
i still go from time to time to eat at mcdonald's and other fast food. i know it's expensive and the prices are going up. the day that it will be too expensive and that i do not want to pay that price, i will eat at home.
we are in a service revolution. inevitable.
finally an epidemic that the ccp was able to contain!
lmao there are tim's in china at all? i was born there and i didn't know it.
there shouldn't be any trouble to commit .....
do they make fondue in a bread bowl?
i had never thought about the fact that ti'motton would work in china ... but apparently it is already the case with [more than 300 branches, and very good forecasts] ( / articles / 2021-10-26 / tim-hortons-china-hits-300-stores-undeterred-by-listing-delay)!
how many duo-tangs are there?
not enough. need at least 3 in each block
oh-ho! good game. we're not bad at covid-zero like it's there, but yeah it would have been cool to stop it before we got out
surely not real franchises
it's quite new but in shanghai popping like mushrooms and there if they are in chongqing i imagine they will arrive in the big cities of provinces bin quickly
i don't think so. the salary of the average cashier or cook should be around 500-600 canadian dollars per month
duo-tang means "sugar bin" in chinese, as i imagine there are a lot, given the nutritional content of the donuts
`` we are not bad at covid-zero as it is there ''
lol, yeah right.   
transform me into legault at the xmen for 2 weeks has me fix it also the cases of covid as the ccp does ...
\ * \ * criss the reports at the oil change
\ -yeah fak good job guys, there may have been covid.
des tim-i orton-i
nah man, unless you're an ultra-cynic in the aluminum hat i don't think it's that simple. the country is more or less sealed, it takes a quarantine not possible to return and as soon as there is a case of listed the entire region closes and everyone is tested. it's drastic but it works better than the partial lockdowns of my two.
aec in electronics more than 20 years ago. the training was quite adequate to work in the field, only downside i was several times left behind in promotions because human resources and the union gave more points to a graduate with a full dec than to my aec i had to fight to have my skills recognized. if your goal is to go faster on the job market, i recommend that you then continue to complete the dec or other related training in demand in the industry.
i would add: this advice applies to almost all jobs in quebec, especially in government. without the required diplomas, hr takes the opportunity to give you lower wages and the unions do not help you because you do not fit in the good, well-tied boxes of the collective agreement.
the private sector will depend on the place, the job, etc. but relevant degrees are never a disadvantage.
the government has offered less than 1.5% per year for a 4-year agreement to civil servants.
we found no one in it, we will continue to find no one in it.
[deleted]
i am in it. i expect a usual 1.5-3%. i have had bumps of $ 5,000 over the course of the year. 5%, i would be happy with that. if i quit my job it will be for reasons other than the salary, because otherwise i would already be working for a company in the us for 2x the salary and paid in usd.
the question also arises for the public service. the collective agreement is to be negotiated. we offered 5% or 6%, depending on economic conditions, over 3 years. i am happy not to be at the conseil du trésor. at the same time, a salary increase of 15% over 3 years to keep up with inflation, i wonder if quebec society would be ready to accept it.
i'm hoping for a 54% raise right now, in 3 years i've tripled my salary.
i don't think i'm getting a raise.
small question on the side like this: how do you ask for a raise. i literally cannot. i freeze as soon as i think about it and i imagine impossible scenarios, i have the female dog to be told no or worse, to prove why i deserve a raise. after that it is the spiral towards the job search, changing colleagues, etc. already that i make an excruciating salary compared to the people on this sub or some friends ...
changing jobs is not really possible, i already have difficulty with instability even if it is to the detriment of the rest.
if i am offered 2% my being in tbnk ... 5% very satisfied. 7-10% very happy.
i am in hr-admin
in education, we are still below the rate of inflation. another year to get poorer.
on the other hand, despite the recognition by the government that the first specialist in education is the teacher, my task has increased even more, and i have even less influence and control over what happens in my class.
[deleted]
i got 1% per year for the next 3 years. inf. of.
in fact, it still depends on the salary we have, 4% out of 30,000 is not terrible, 4% out of 100,000 is not the same story.
i work for mcgill and we are negotiating our new collective agreement. mcgill wants to cut all our salaries so that we can offer better salaries to beginners ...
for my part, we were offered 1.6% for 5 years. so i will change jobs to get my 4.7% because i have a job in demand. it's not even worth negotiating because it's so disrespectful. i look forward to my meeting with hr.
i am wholeheartedly with those who will not have the same luck as me.
i got 4.5%. considering that i'm already super well paid, my benefits and everything in between. i don't intend to change. especially since i am approaching early retirement. i'm a few months away from finishing my career, so it's not worth it. i have a good team and i generally like what i do.
i work for a big corporation and the ceo announced a 3% increase to everyone 2 weeks ago.
if everyone receives a 5% + increase without producing more, we will still have high inflation.
i asked for a renegotiation of my $ 70k salary at a losing tech start-up, and the executive body responded by establishing a salary policy making me ineligible to have a raise for 5 months (the policy includes a base increase equal to inflation - it's not that bad).
i found that a little insulting for the work i do, say. it took me two weeks to receive two offers at $ 90k and more vacations. suddenly, the ceo who suspects that i am looking for revisits my request ...
you have to know how to elbows, i have no idea that employers will make it easy for the employees they already have.
\ - 2.5% salary increase.
\ - group insurance paid at 100% for the employer. we were at 50 - 50 before.
\ - premium for tools which goes from 750 $ to 1000 $. (+ $ 250).
i'm pretty happy on my side with his changes. it is how much of the hour i earn that is important to me. this is how much i have left at the end of the year and how much i am able to set aside at the end of the year.
i will start my 9th year in may 2022 with my current employer and i will stay for a very long time even if the competition offers me more and the famous headhunters call me every week.
i work for a broker / financial institution and it came out that we would be entitled to a maximum 2.5% increase. it doesn't even cover inflation.
an increase for all of 15% would be the minimum to ensure the maintenance of purchasing power. we are tired of exploitation.
we had the "bizbaillé" hideout which was kind of a mix between tag and stash, kind of like what you're talking about.
otherwise for the "normal" hiding place it was just "ready, not ready, i'm going"
i think you're talking about some type of hiding place. it seems to be the hiding place bisbaillé or ezbayé as you say. me most of the time i played the classic hideout where there was no base. the game ended when you had found all the hidden ones.
i come from laval and i have never heard of this type of hiding place, am i perhaps too young or too old? ( 30 years )
ready not ready, i'm going. lol
we used to say “fifty [name of person]”. never understood why: p
never heard of it. from the mtl region
1-2-3 safe! when we played kick la can, or hideout.
it was in the outaouais for me.
booted canisse? one two three for me
i have no recollection of playing this type of hideout, but like another user said, maybe i am too young or too old (27)
ready, not ready, i'm going!
ready not ready, yes, at the start of the game.
but when we got back to where the person had counted.
but your bizbaillé… that could be it.
it looks like that, yeah.
but where does it come from then, bisbaillé?
we had to come back without the person who mattered touching us. as others say - mix of tag and stash.
that's when you go looking for hidden players.
i speak when you come back when you were in hiding.
we also said safe.
small precision to kick the can, the base or the can was a cone or other similar object and when you returned to the base you kicked it and it was no longer in the same place due to the kick then the next ones returned to the post often was looking for her and it created a good situation.
about the same age as you and i have no idea what he's talking about
he doesn't mean when you start. he talks about the version with which there is a base where people hiding have to go to win. once at the base the person must shout something. here it was: the person's name + bizbaillé. example: thomas bizbaillé
yeah it was clearly bizbaillé with a b.
maybe baseball? we had to touch the place where the one that mattered was. maybe some slipped in extremis like in baseball to arrive before the one who mattered?
perfect excuse to keep people from telling them their four truths on social media: lush is anti-union.
just say it's the second time they've done this. the last, they came back after a few months.
are they coming to reddit?
aka where not to do your christmas shopping
withdrawing from facebook means not allowing people to be able to openly criticize the business.
yes it often includes karen's but it also allows a lot of red flag.
i'm definitely not lush's target audience, but in general i wouldn't trust a store that's afraid of social media.
if they could get their awful scents out of the mall hallways, that would be appreciated too. damn it stinks when you walk past that store.
big news.
ah, i didn't know. thanks for the info.
i shared the article since a company was pulling out of facebook 😅.
i believe in the right of employees to group together just as i believe in the right of a company to be anti-union.
yeah, the article mentions that as well :).
surely not. the article only mentions that the company is pulling out of facebook / instagram because it doesn't like the toxic of this social media. she keeps twitter though.
basically, the company doesn't like facebook's policy of managing profit before its users.
we're going to line up for 4 hours at the bath and body works instead to get our stinky candles!
yes i was super happy when i saw that. i myself worked at lush for a few months and found the experience pleasant.
but hey, i went to read a little later and i am frankly disappointed. another company that i'm going to boycott.
except that the law is chalice of your beliefs, the company does not have the right to be anti union. they don't even have the right to talk about it.
> i believe in the right of a company to be anti-union.
it is forbidden, my big one.
i speak more at the level of opinion.
'' the joyce principle ''
i'm a nurse and usually when i use '' in principle '' it's to explain how things should be done but that we don't have the staff or the capacity to grant requests.
ex in principle you have the right to choose your doctor, nurse or attendant. in reality you take what is present on the unit.
you have to have lived with natives to understand what it is like to live with natives.
that is to say ?
you have to have lived with blacks to understand what it is like to live with blacks.
ish.
yeah that sentence could really go in all kinds of different directions lol…
i like how he does not answer because he surely knows that he will be downvoted.
are there any black stocks now?
yes, it's called the ghetto
you know that ghetto is a term just to designate a group of people sharing common points, be it color, language or religion… it is not to speak of blacks in particular…
the jewish ghettos ... have you ever had a history class on wwii?
tell me you don't know the definition of words without telling me that you don't know the definition of words ...
> you know that ghetto is a correct term to designate a group of people sharing common points, whether it is color, language or religion… it is not to speak of blacks in particular…
>
> the jewish ghettos ... have you ever had a history lesson on wwii?
>
> tell me that you don't know the definition of words without telling me that you don't know the definition of words ...
--------------------------------->
woooosh
is it a bird? is it a plane?
no, it's a semi-joking shit post flying over your head
l ol. it sounds like what old monuncles say in bars ...
they're going to shut down 3 and we're going to see an article titled "are millennials killing tim hortons?"
17 duo-tangs in brossard!
that's one tim per 8,181.8 people. 8,181.8 people in a tim is pretty full.
the invisible hand of the market will settle this, no bamboozle, i swear to you guys.
tim hortons, in my opinion, let the quality down when restaurant brands (burger king) bought them a few years ago. we see the decline in the quality of food which has nothing to do with when i was younger. people will not take a detour to get their products, so the strategy is to be more present as possible on the usual paths i believe.
there are 3 of them closed on taschereau and they have all been replaced by starbucks.
in this image, there are 5 tim in gas stations and 1 which is not in brossard but in greenfield park.
even the three on the right are technically in saint-hubert.
so only 3 tim “standalone” in brossard.
1) please tim's, invent some compostable coffee cups.
2) improve the taste of your coffee, if i drink it by misfortune i feel like i'm drinking the same as austin powers (those in the know know).
fun fact: [timmotons] ( is now managed by restaurant brands international, the company that operates burger king. and their major shareholders are brazilians.
in short, it is no longer canadian pentoute.
since i learned to recycle my mop water, i haven't been back to tim's. the difference is minor honestly try it
a great city of culture.
my biggest problem with this screenshot is that your google maps is in miles rather than kilometers.
... ok and that's still a lot of tim horton's.
two tim hortons on the same street corner: 
i think we have to take into account the population passing through brossard in terms of commuting, transport and recreation
funny i would have thought it was more than that.
i am proud of my city for this honorable distinction
comes to the north shore, there are tims one in front of the other!
the gas station tim hortons are not real tims
the same is happening with subway. the franchises are cheap (100k) so there are tons of them. in large urban centers, some are only a 5-minute walk from each other.
thanks, i felt compelled to research what tim hortons is. i do not know. we are quite ignorant across the atlantic.
fun fact: this restaurant chain is now brazilian. source: wikipedia.
kisses.
no, for nothing in the world i would go and live in the united states.
canada and quebec are far from perfect, we still have a lot of things to improve but we have absolutely nothing to envy the americans. neither in terms of culture, education, finance, social safety nets… nothing.
i sleep well at night and i want her to stay like her.
the us is the last place i'd go live. europe or nz would be much better for me.
no thanks. would rather prefer scandinavia though.
never in a thousand years! in many respects, the us is a third world country.
the country that's existed for 245 years and been at war for 228 of them? thanks, no thanks.
nop. i'd be too afraid of cops or anyone with a gun really. getting sick and having to pay 1000s of dollars that i don't have on medical bills is also a big no-no. en plus j'aime le québec fait que non les states c'est vraiment pas pour moi.
we are on r / quebec, we don't really know what r / canada is
i don't see any benefits in living in the states. moi j'aime l'hiver.
you mean the country that's so violent and polarized it could explode in a civil war any election? where one can have the privilege of being an abused wage slave and no healthcare or social safety net worth mentionning? a barely democratic tax haven where i'd get to rub elbows with uneducated, bigoted jesus cultists every day? hard pass. it's not perfect here but it's miles ahead in term of quality of life.
hell nah... to the nah-nah-no
canada lets me smoke mi'kmaq-grown cannabis flower bought from province-run dispensaries. 🇨🇦
i grew up in the us. moved here 10 years ago. have no desire to go back.
do not.
any country, i mean, any country that you could be shot at "because this is your right to carry and defend" 
or any country where people on social media write shit like "if he had a gun he still be alive or else" can put me in the black list as an future immigrant.
if you want to come here, be my guess. the food is great and we have low crime rate and free health care for instance.
absolutely fucking not.
i live in ontario at the moment and even that's too much. cannot wait to move back to québec lol, i fucking hate it here. i wouldn't live in any other canadian province either honestly.
i live in québec. and no.
québec have it's problem true. i'll never ever leave for the us. with all the social benefits have, our tranquility and smooth way of life and the fact we're not a bloodthirsty militaristic and ultra-capitalist nation and we have a distinct culture that's not overpretentious and self-centered bs is enough of a reason for me to never leave qc for the us
beside if i wanted to be a bitch i'd the us is closer to third world dictatorship wearing a gucci suit and a big gun to look menacing tbh
no, a week or two is enough thnks
why live in the us when we have free healthcare and almost free education? and we can spend 6 months a year in the us anyways. anyone moving to the us would be extremely dumb! oh and their weird love for guns, religion and fascism.. no, non, non merci!
i made the move and i have no regrets. i earn 5x more than if i were in montreal, the cost of living is lower for me, the weather is great all year round, and i have damn good health care.
> the mayoress of longueuil was previously elected the highest paid in quebec, with a salary of around $ 250,000 per year.
tabarnaquoi ???
“[…] the salary of the mayoress of longueuil has caused much ink to flow in recent years. i share the opinion of the population to the effect that it is inconceivable that this salary should be higher than that of the premier of quebec and that of the mayor of montreal. it's a matter of common sense, ”said catherine fournier, in a statement.
she will still do 5 figures per month.
she still made a big salary at the provincial level.
there's no politician who understands the middle class, even her, she's going to do committee cries instead of doing anything advanced ... and she's going to collect her 5 figures per month + committee bonus.
it should never be more than 65-70k per year a servant of the people.
justin trudeau's salary had risen to [$ 345,500] ( in 2017.
250k to manage a city vs 346k to manage a country ... clearly there is one that crams the system more than the other ... and for once, it's not trudeau (we have another reason shit on him, don't worry hahaha)
if you want my opinion, it is above all that the mayoress of montreal and the premier of quebec are poorly paid. i know you're not doing this for the money (at least the salary ...) but for the responsibilities and just to stay away from the brown envelopes i want elected officials paid at their fair value.
if we don't pay them, someone else will pay them.
to serve the people, more condescending than that ...
we will definitely attract the best with a philosophy like this
> it should never be more than 65-70k per year a servant of the people.
it is true that the police are overpaid.
to have a job as mayor of * shudders *… longueuil, i would expect a salary of at least 100k eh
no more committee bonuses since 2018, you're late in your bawling
when you are the mayor of a big city, you work 7 days a week. that gives him a salary of about $ 40 / h.
she didn't try hard if the opposition blocked the proposal ...
at the same time the salary of the president of the united states, the last time i heard of it was only 300k.
edit: apparently it is 400k.
town halls always attract the most mediocre in politics, even at 250,000 lol
especially since they don't do 35 hours a week for elected officials. i know very few who do well below 60-70 hours.
according to them, it was not enough of a big drop.
it's funny eh. she didn't make a second attempt with a bigger drop ... i guess she really wanted to buy a new ski-doo this year.
400k to manage a country of 325 million inhabitants, it is in my opinion very poorly paid ...
at least she makes the effort. she did not speak a word of french before taking up her post. i don't understand why you piss him off in the face.
it is already one more speech in french than the president of air canada.
the only way to prevent this from happening again is for the office of governor general to be abolished.
i saw several people making fun of his french and i don't understand what's the problem? are you going to start complaining that the world is giving up and taking the time to learn? since when do we complain that someone is learning? you have to start somewhere when you learn a new language and complaining that your french is not perfect is disappointing and unproductive in my opinion .... open to discuss
her french is better than my inuktitut.
having listened to the entire speech, i can tell you that this is an excerpt where she had difficulty speaking. there is clearly work to be done, but i invite you to listen to more than 21 seconds. for my part, i noticed that she already had a good pronunciation in french (not illustrated in this excerpt) and i found it really interesting that she does not have an english accent when she speaks. it's a very specific, really interesting and certainly inspiring accent of inuktitut.
glad to live in a country that works concretely to achieve * lay-gah-lee-tay ray-el dew franh-seh ay dew long-lay *.
so much the better to mrs. simon to become the governor general.
it's just a shame that in the entire population of canada, trudeau has not been able to find someone who can communicate properly in both of canada's official languages.
and, surprisingly, it is french that takes the brunt.
ce tu wla, gwassideurw
we can clearly see the government's hypocrisy, in trying to make us believe that minority languages, both inuktitut and french, are important to them.
i have nothing against mary simon, on the contrary, i pity her, she is a puppet ... her mouth speaks, but she certainly does not understand what she is saying.
it's amazing the hypocrisy here.
you were angry that she didn't speak french, she made the effort to learn it fast and you were pissing her off anywhere.
remind me of your english level after just a few weeks?
criss that you are illogical, mean, and miserable.
beyond that, the liberals just announced in the throne speech their intention to bring back a bunch of old (renewed) plans to further censor the internet, of course they did not put it that way.
the one is nasal, she pronounces the oi, oa, she makes her connections like the world, what's the problem? his hesitation? it's not as if written french can be read cheerfully.
she chicks on her french when she's learning, but you all make mistakes when it's your mother tongue. don't try to make me believe that you never say "like" or "deep down" in your sentences when it's not french.
in this case, contrary to the popular saying, we hope that the boots will stick out the lips and not just follow them otherwise it will not go far.
wow! like me in the 5th year of primary school when i spoke english!
survey :
do you think that on his sheet, it was written in french or "in phonetics"?
since the vg of canada who did not even have level when he submitted his first report and that the following year he could give the same conference but completely in french, the bar has been raised. personally, i will be forming my opinion on his french in just one year.
it looks good for about 2 months of lessons (?). i am glad she is making the effort and i hope she will continue if she loses my support.
there are some who don't care, but if our governor general is doing well and making very good progress like jagmeet singh did, she will be a role model for anyone in the country who wants to learn french but who say to themselves that 'learning a language as an adult is not possible / not worth it'.
we're stuck with it anyway. my hope is that she uses the opportunity to speak candidly and publicly about her experience and that she continues to improve. i believe it is in his interest to do so because it gives the opportunity to promote language learning in general as well, including native languages.
too long too expensive, really poo. not good ark it stinks. idea cheaper better bridge. long tunnel not good.
10 billion
usually an engineering project requires a study of needs, solutions and feasibility.
the problem is that these studies have not been presented to us at this time. we are told that a 3rd link is the only viable option. the project as it is currently proposed represents a challenge because there is no comparable tunnel in the world. it would cost 10 billion + cost overruns that can be quantified at 50 or 100% surplus, depending on whether one is optimistic or pessimistic.
before being for or against the 3rd link, it would be fun to have the needs studies and proposed solutions, but they are not accessible (if they exist).
when my lego tunnel goes, cousins at lego build near mizon to make $$$
the tunnel or the general idea of having another link between the two banks?
10 billion to build a tunnel more than 8 km long that will be used, perhaps, in 10 years, 50,000 vehicles per day !? in 2019, the average daily flow in the hippolyte-lafontaine tunnel, just over a km long, was 121,000 vehicles ...
10 billion ?! it’s not bad.
yes.
sausage poo
best summary i have ever read.
i do not see the difference between that and what we read regularly on the sub.
[pouiche] (
> why this idolatry of the english language! do we become more believable by using english words? is the french language a sub-language to express certain concepts and that you have to resort to english at all costs to be fashionable?
this is the impression that my students and that young people in general give me.
well, i don't think the "denise bombardier" arguments are going to be really convincing for those targeted by the article. of course, "* enjoy * the moment" is ugly but it is anecdotal.
on the other hand, there are a lot of statistics and historical data which clearly indicate that the more english is used in the workplace, the more it is francophones (bilingual or not) who pay the price. why hire a french speaker who speaks 95% bilingual english if you can hire a unilingual english speaker who is 100% english, since the boss always speaks english anyway? if we do not defend our right to work in french, we risk becoming second-class citizens again in our own province.
besides, i was thinking back to the case of the boss of air canada who had a french-speaking mother but never learned french. we planted him for that, but the reality may be that his mother * deliberately * chose to hide her french so that her son would not be discriminated against because of his french accent. the guy probably grew up in the 60s and 70s when french speakers were seen with a lot of hostility.
we can never show enough this clip, made in montreal at the end of the 60s ...
[
anglicisms are part of the scenery.
a strength of the english language is to freely invent strong terms and expressions to describe the world it exposes: _small talk_, _screen capture_, _wysiwyg_, _mansplaining_, ... english almost brings us references iconic for catchy talking about very specific things. i have always been amazed by the ability of the english to produce commonplaces. it's almost orwellian at times ...
a strength of our language in front of the english fact, it is to offer us a distance. french forces us to digest anglicisms before absorbing them. it is a slow process that does not adapt well to the instantaneousness of communications. a translation will break the charm of an original version. but it is also an opportunity to sift through the concepts that impose themselves in spite of oneself.
instead of opposing the young to the old or talking about idolatry, i would be inclined to be more pragmatic and to compare uses. an artist who vibrates with his environment and his time will not express himself in the same way as one who leaves elsewhere or who questions his present.
you can be a foreigner in your own country and enjoy colonization. it concerns first of all the artist and it can reflect a larger phenomenon ... the same rule applies for its opposite.
what a post… no wait: publication of an old con, don't get me wrong, i love my language and i think it's the most complete but frankly i have the impression of dealing with extremist anglophobes, your arguments are so futile, as if it was a pride not to want to acquire various language skills.
how should it be a debate between popular expressions and the urban language of young people.
i don't even see why we are complaining, being born french-speaking is definitely an advantage for hundreds of reasons that i am too lazy to list.
being part of these young people, it is the impression that i too
this is staggering. this is my impression too. the only hope that remains is that these will raise awareness over the years as they get older… let's say it's not on netflix, tiktok and instagram that it's going to happen.
seems to me that i would not bet the house on this probability. what do we do now? pcq it's not true that i want to spend the time i have left to live in a tabarnak while the gambles are already made ...
just look at the majority of comments on this subreddit
to be able to align three sentences without anglicism or borrowing is the new bourgeoisie.
it's ironic anyway for a bastard language that comes from old german and franco-norman french ...
just for fun i found a list in two seconds on [google] (
better yet, according to the britannica:
"many terms relating to dress and fashion, cuisine and viniculture, politics and diplomacy, drama and literature, art and ballet come from french."
so contrary to what the author of the article can say, no the french language is not a sub-language; it is the english-speaking morons who advance it who should be reminded of the opposite with great blows of encyclopedias in the face.
at the same time, the guy is a member of the association for the support and use of the french language (asulf). he has the right to be in good shape.
thank you for this page of history.
it's saved.
i think you are mixing linguistic skills with the situation of the french language in quebec.
- an old jerk (i imagine).
hey barouette, how that should be a debate ...
considering the poor quality of french in quebec, both in teaching and in the use of the language, we actually come to wonder why we should focus on popular expressions and others, eh?
“we are thus brought to the heart of the problem, which is a problem of civilization. our students speak joual because they think joual, and they think joual because they live joual, like everyone else around here. living joual is rock'n roll and hot-dog party and car ride, etc. our whole civilization is playful. nothing will be resolved by acting on the level of the language itself (contests, campaigns to speak french well, congresses, etc.). it is at the level of civilization that we must act. "
it's funny because it comes from the 70s, in the middle of the quiet revolution. an important moment in our shared history, let's see what we get out of it ...
ah bah people are always so bad to shit, generally unable to express themselves well and it takes pleasure in low level expressions. puree, there's no need to say we're strong. it must look good afterwards when you pass for simpletons because the only thing you know how to do is speak at a level that goes beyond the secondary level. it's not every day that someone will give you a presentation worthy of a bac on something that he is passionate about.
after that is explained, there have been incredible efforts to crush and make french disappear in canada. to completely ban its teaching, or at least to force the population not to use it anymore (when the bosses all speak english and you're pretty stuck speaking english or dying ... well you speak english ) it has an impact. this is why the quiet revolution was a key moment: we had to get back on our feet and assert ourselves.
result: we lost, and we are gradually erasing. french will disappear in north america, it's not a question of "if" but of "when".
"death by a thousand cuts" all that all that
i'm 31 years old and when i was 15 it seems to me that it was the same thing and everybody where almost stopped using so many english words.
i mean in the early days of facebook a lot of people wrote articles and even commented entirely in english even though everyone was french speaking. msn messenger 3/4 of the world put their "status" in english. and i give this as an example but in real life people who added words in english in their sentences that also happened.
today, no one who did that at 15 still does it at 30. so i'm not saying that this time it couldn't be different, but as such the phenomenon is nothing new.
will you lend me your crystal ball when you're done with it?
i think the big difference this time around is the internet revolution and the number of quebecers (young and old) who live daily in the american cultural and media space, with minimal contact with quebec culture.
a pair of joe's!
> how is your evening going?
well until a minute ago, i didn't really taste like a jos louis and then ...
it reminds me of when i was staying in ste-marie-de-beauce where there is the general store in vachon with products that do not pass the quality test.
we had bought a box of mille-feuilles that lacked a chocolate curl on it.
/r/2healthbars
at costco they sell two-story jos louis
e'ul gro' vas t'acheter in siss carante noeuf!
you are now a chosen one
missed opportunity to say "thick"
make a wish
we do not stop progress
maybe it was a pregnant jos louis
[deleted]
you win the interwebs tonight.
if. louis *
joe louis is the boxer.
frozen right? right?
jos louis doritos no time to mess around
it's all a merger my boyfriend
you just peaker in your life.
inception!!
not as good as yours clearly.
i just know the french barbara…
are you talking about this [barbara] (
here, i learned something. i thought she was from quebec, not french. thank you.
i think so. i thought she was from quebec, not french. thank you.
nothing !
first things that come to mind:
there is a chocolate factory in mont tremblant which wins world prizes, it is sold elsewhere
quebec alpaca socks are expensive but they are the most comfortable thing there is, there are a couple of farms
if you are looking for good brunch places in quebec, the wendake hotel restaurant has stuff you really can't find elsewhere, it's relatively expensive compared to other brunches but it's extremely good for the cost.
i love rosemont pastis if you know one of the 15 people in quebec who love pastis
suggestion to mods: pin this thread
a big bottle of 50
this [site] ( is rather interesting if you are looking for ideas.
there is a wide variety of board games made in quebec. randolph, kikigagne, goblivion, etc. here is a link on the subject: 
i have seen lily flower dildos on etsy. it said made in quebec
hmmm, search etsy and filter by saying quebec only? lots of craftsmen on this site.
i share my weakness for the ludovidec online store.
they do all kinds of things by hand, with historical connotations: nouvelle-france / quebec / canada.
[garneau slippers] ( handmade slippers - they are super cozy!
what i like to offer is my time to people. time to help them in their routine by babysitting, cooking for them or with them for example. write them a poem or make a video montage or photos of common memories.
something from bombardier?
the classic maison lavande
show tickets! i know it's still classic, but there is room to introduce artists from here to those close to us who will certainly not hear about them on rouge fm. even if the shows have resumed, the cash flow is still meager, with the deficit caused by the long break and the rooms half full due to sanitary measures. i preach for my parish, but i think it's important to encourage local francophone talent, especially at this time!
in pikkado (very practical site for exchanging gifts), there are now gift suggestions, and everything looks quebecois!
sherby box
plates or coffee cups from porcelaines bousquet.
soap. cream etccc. ecological drying ball ... made a christmas market hihi
my mother-in-law triumphs over this sort of thing and every year i go get her a basket at the christmas market in my region. i order it online and just go get it. there are several types of products of all kinds (beauty, culinary, etc.) which all come from my region. i am in the outaouais, but there are some everywhere in quebec.
the fairy mocks, for young children. super nice store on du parc
wasn't that the purpose of the "blue basket" site? i have bye-bye flashbacks just to talk about it!
who buys the catalysts?
where / how do thieves find the buyer?
who recovers metals from “old” catalysts?
if they are exported directly into containers, it is difficult to trace but there are certain avenues for investigators to follow.
the builders are partly responsible. why can you remove a catalyst so easily in 1 minute just by crawling under the tank, but when you just want to change a spark plug or a filter have to take half of the tank apart for 3 hours?
still funny at 2:30. he calls a buyer of stolen catalysts and continues to speak with his beautiful tivi voice with flowers in it. "yeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee, i'm calling regarding the announcement. are you buying catalysts? does it take a minimum amount?
$ 4,000 each ... i'm not in the right vocation
i saw the video yesterday and $ 800 to $ 1200 for a metal plate? i wonder how much does the plate cost alone? because making 2 folds and drilling holes shouldn't be difficult to do yourself
hey thanks for the idea :) / s
it's not original at all, thieves do this with everything they know insured. it's worse for whole cars because the insurance companies don't want to do business with you anymore because the thief came back for your new tank after stealing the old one the month before.
tabarnak he sells it dearly for his piece of sheet metal.
same question i asked myself. it seems to be metal recycling centers. it should be more regulated because a dude who brings back a large number of catalysts is clearly suspect.
from what i heard they open the catalyst to remove the [dimpled part] ( 1554459990837 / figure-3-honeycomb-cores-of-catalytic-converters.jpg) which contains the precious metals. then they smash it to dust, and put it in barrels. they send the barrels abroad to extract and separate the precious metals.
good point. i imagine you have some engineering questions in there but it's clearly not a new problem, they could make it a lot more difficult.
not all companies are like that either, some place it directly at the outlet of the manifold, under the hood, it's a lot more difficult in these cases.
when it doesn't matter how much damage you do to remove a part from a car, it's really not long.
even you are spark-plugs, it would take me no more than 2-3 minutes to go looking for them if they were worth expensive.
1: cut the hood latch with a "sawzall" or battery grinder
2: tears off the plastic / wiring above the motor
3: take out your spark-plug socket and unscrew it with a drille
seriously, a spark-plug pullout competition would be a good idea for a tv show! lol
like between 50 and 200 $ for a plate of 2 feet by 4 feet in 3/16. depending on the product. if you go stainless it costs even more at $ 520 but i would be surprised if he uses stainless if he uses paint.
in my opinion, if the recycling centers don't ask a lot of questions, they could be complicit in the scheme. if they are not, they are not trying too hard to speak out about what is going on.
"* i have 4 kilos of palladium to sell. *"
"* here is your cash *"
[an idea of the price of palladium] (
yes, it probably is.
so there are several accomplices here.
as long as there are no laws to govern it, you don't have to ask questions. worse even then, you don't have so many ways to know if the dude's story is legit or not. it would practically be necessary to demand to bring an invoice for a new catalyst in exchange for an old one or to do business with serious companies of dismantling.
so these companies could be charged with receiving stolen goods.
there are laws in place, serious in addition; they are supposed to have the vehicle serial number on every part taken apart and put up for sale.
the problem is, there is no inspector out there why scrap yards would respect that?
> so these companies ~~ could ~~ should be charged with receiving stolen goods.
cpt
> they also jumped when they learned of the
video, dismayed that their work is being used to promote a
political movement at odds with the ideas that wanted to convey
the original issue.
the right-wing world that does not understand the artistic intention? * surprised pikachu face *
what a peewee party. [souvenir achievement] (
where but the arts have made this ake our tasks facing our apartment
(/s)
duhaime's conservative party is nothing more than a product of the covid. it's a party of parasites.
> if duhaime does not like being screwed by buying a used product, he should start by setting an example by not screwing the artists ”, replied with a touch of sarcasm the screenwriter of bougon, françois avard
do you see françois, his reasoning is the same for you as for the qst at the saaq: "you have already been paid for your series, why would someone still pay you?"
"in addition it went to radcan, it was done ayk not'argent !!" duhaime would justify himself if he were asked to speak on the matter.
to represent their constituents?
i don't like people who don't understand sarcasm, or who take it all in the first degree (precisely because they don't like me! xd)
it is important not to know avard and mercier to think that it would certainly not bother them.
honestly, i don't feel the ideas were particularly well conveyed on the show. this isn't the first time i've seen conspirators use clips from the show for their own ends.
reminds of paul ryan who said to be a big fan of rage against the machine, for them to answer that it is not bad the machine against which they are enraged.
the more i see her, the less i understand how the pcq world thought it was a good idea to post this on fb
> “of course, it is debatable that a good which has been taxed is retaxed on resale. let's discuss it. but artists live off their copyright. if duhaime does not like getting screwed by buying a used product, he should start by setting an example by not screwing the artists, ”replied with a touch of sarcasm the screenwriter of bougons, françois avard, after viewing the film. advertising.
ouch.
not exactly agree, duhaime is surfing the wave of trumpism which has been well established since 2016 ... as many others are doing in the world. but hey it is clear that the covid did not help.
it's like the world that sums up all of rage against the machine's work to "fuck you i won't do what you tell me". worse later they will complain that tom morello has "become" politicized
[ 
"president association *** compté *** anjou louis-riel pcq"
as duhaime would say, "better bad candidates than no pentoute candidates!"
yeah i admit. worse in fact, it makes it even worse ..... 😶
doesn't the guy like a doctorate in science? it makes me laugh all the time.
not for nothing that from election to election, the pcq shares a good number of candidates with the ppc. it is not really lights which present themselves for these parties there.
he studied science po at harvard, but i'm not sure that's a doctorate. but yeah it's always funny to learn that famous artists who have big studies like that. genus dexter from the offspring who has a phd in molecular biology.
here, there is jérôme dupras from cowboys fringuants who has a doctorate in geography and who has a research chair in ecological economics at uqo. i had really laughed once in the same segment on radio-can he was there to present the new cowboys album and not 10 minutes later he was there again dressed very clean now to talk about his research.
ma just leave it here! 
the tools you can buy like tax expert etc. doesn't that allow you to do that?
[  
especially if your only $ 10 profit to declare, shouldn't be that complex to complete ....
usually i do my personal taxes myself. but for an incorporated business, i'm not sure. i don't think the software in question does. they organize the expenses and income but then you have to give everything to your accountant. ex: quickbook offers compables for $ 750 / year a version that allows them to fill in taxes.
it's not the $ 10 that makes it complex or not, but the nature of the transactions i believe. this is why the government tells you to do an abbreviated t2 if you have no profits because it will require more work from your accountant who will charge you more when you have not made any money.
it's called expert tax t2…. not sure that it should do what you're trying to do ...
> havana syndrome is said to be a collective psychogenic illness, caused by a very stressful environment which prompts us to interpret natural symptoms such as dizziness and headaches as possible attacks.
that, or else it's another propaganda stunt from the usa like they've been doing since they lost their panties when they landed in the bay of pigs.
it was never easy for their delicate egos to digest.
> this series is not very well known in quebec
uhhh lol
dude "once upon a time in life" is too sick. without being perfect, it is still very relevant.
when i was little i had a book on pastor that i adored. with the story of a little boy who teased a mad dog. it described the vaccines and the immune system by little soldiers who kill bad germs.
seems to me that this book should be in all schools.
this is pa sorcerer. they do very good science popularization.
he also did this one not long ago.
it's not rocket science, it's quite old (early 2000 i think) but it's really well done. my children have listened to it a lot.
i saw pass in a local facebook group, i tell myself that it could be useful to others (i did not know that it was not known here!).
the links for those who are lazy to copy:
* vaccination: [ marge(
* the immune system: [ 4.3(
if not recently cell at work on netflix is a must to watch with kids.
the important thing is to watch the show and talk about it with your child (like quite a few other shows); too many parents leave the child in front of the tv or a tablet on their own and leave their education to others: /
yes, but they are talking about nice vaccines when we injected dead babies into our veins. now it's arn that will mutate you and make you sterile!
/ s if it's not obvious. one of my anti-vaccine friends just sent me a msg on facebook telling me to watch out for vaccines for children! i don't know how to answer him, it's a waste of time. btw my guy has an appointment on saturday even though we had the covid last year.
also available on netflix, but the series is rated tv-ma since there are guys all naked at the start, so they are not on the youth accounts.
hahaha, we are a whole generation to have been "educated" with this show!
it was one of my favorite shows! there was also 《once upon a time, the story ...》
wasn't that "a good example of ..."?
yeah, i had this book. it is a pity that they have passed over the concept that a vaccine is not an antibiotic.
awesome, thank you! i hadn't even thought about it!
cells at work is excellent. but i would say it's for older kids. not so much for the 'violence' as for the explanations which are relatively thorough in the end.
yes, in belgium too. i loved this show.
there are plenty of others on the hello maestro youtube channel: 
once upon a time there was a man, if i'm not mistaken.
and once upon a time there was also space, but the memory is vague.
there was also once upon a time ... the man if i remember correctly and it was on the body parts
yup. there was also the one about terry fox, beethoven, and the deaf blind woman whose name escapes me. we read that morally in elementary school. edit: helen keller
my family comes from the mauricie, there are no tim hortons there. but there are * tsîmorteunes * with the fucken shovelful.
the correct answer: none. the service at tim hortons in trois-rivières is shitty. go to mcdonald's instead. exit 202
and from experience a fun game: only one of them is going to have donuts prepared, if you want some you have to play find them before someone else does.
criss that their coffee is bad!
we can see them at the same time here:
there is no danger here for the french
haha lol i understand her! their accent by saying the name of a restaurant remains francophone lollllllll band of remainders! we laugh well, the poor rednecks.
truth
there are some really good teachers and some really bad ones. the subject is quite thorough and the work not overly demanding. the diploma has a good reputation and you will have no trouble finding a job with it. the program directors are really cool and accommodating, they are always ready to work with you and try to accommodate you.
student life was really cool before the covid, but now i would say that it leaves a little to be desired if you don't come across a really good gang through your classes (and you know as well as me that in the news, it's not always most fun and sociable people).
and the majority of your classmates and probably friends will be french foreign students.
it's a shame but i found that the native students of saguenay didn't speak much to non-saguenéens and that meant that 80% of my friends were french, the other 20% were quebs from other regions. maybe i was unlucky but the people there all seemed to already have their circles of friends established and not really looking to meet new people.
i did not study computer science but you have it right on the saguenéens. incredibly hard to make friends at uqac. most keep the same gang they've had since high school.
lol, he was just commenting on stuff on an energy publication related to childhood immunizations.
i quote
> phew .... it's going to take a bunch of small coffins ....
> serious side effects of vaccines and drugs accounted by who.
mumps vaccine 711 over 50 years
ivermectin 5,705 over 30 years
measles vaccine 5,827 over 54 years
tetanus vaccine 15,085 over 54 years
hydroxychloroquine 32,641 over 54 years
rotavirus vaccine 68,327 over 22 years
polio vaccine 121,988 over 54 years
ibuprofen 166,209 over 53 years
paracetamol 169,359 over 54 years
aspirin 184,481 over 54 years
pneumococcal vaccine 234,783 over 42 years
flu vaccine 272,202 over 54 years
covid vaccine 2,457,386 in less than 2 years
> go take your 3-4-5th dose but let go of the children alone with the experiemental potion ....
and lots of other conspiratorial shit.
> "this person is a former employee, who has not been employed by pspc since 2016," confirmed pspc media relations. public relations officers did not give details of the reasons for his departure.
it's crazy how the public service can be afraid of being associated with a psychopath as if they were solely responsible ...
very few comments here 😉
at the same time, making the link with the public service when he's been out of work for 5 years is questionable, especially since his position seems to have no connection with his crimes. what else is pspc supposed to say?
> "this person is a former employee, who has not been employed by pspc since 2016," confirmed pspc media relations. public relations officers did not give details of the reasons for his departure.
it's crazy how much the journalist tried to associate the public service ~~ can be afraid of being associated ~~ with a psychopath as if she was solely responsible ...
edition: it's been 5 years that he no longer works for the fp.
what do you want us to say? lol
ah, i saw that it's you op..i understand my downvote kek.
in fact, you are right. it is the journalist (and la pressee) who strongly tried to blame the public service with a title of marde.
* "an ex-employee of a tim hortons arrested" * would probably never have been accepted by la presse.
with what we have learned for a few days, i have a hard time believing that marguerite blais will keep her job.
"my minister of finance will now deal with the return of the nordics ..."
more eye candy.
i find it hard to understand that she has still been there for months.
the hockey ministry will now take care of the propaganda.
rampage in the eyes, yeah.
blais, fizgibon, jolin-barette.
no gene, no listening ...
years, not months. she managed to make a full career in politics without ever doing anything. she should have been minister of unemployment.
when you think she said live on some newscast that the reason for her career in politics is that as a little girl she dreamed of buying a mercedes ...
sjb is not at the same level as blais
it's true. blais does nothing while sjb does everything wrong.
bill 96, and bill 21 are, after all, good laws.
and that of the mention of original sex on official documents for non-operated trans? it was the genius of sjb.
she has been changed
yes, but it was thought
thought crimes?
fighting against an employer who wants to kick you out on your own or with the sydicat and his "army of lawyers". basically that's the difference.
it's like dealing with a difficult divorce. whoever has the most lawyers leaves with the most chance of winning.
[
> for unionized employees, it is important to note that it is always necessary to refer to the grievance procedure mechanism provided for in the collective agreement. to this end, a section on the grievance mechanism and the deadlines for filing a dismissal grievance and referring it to arbitration is generally provided for in the collective agreement, and the same applies to other grievances including those concerning harassment. psychological. in some cases, it is necessary to refer to the law such as the quebec labor code or to specific laws, especially when it comes to employees governed by specific laws such as, for example, employees of the sûreté du québec with the act respecting the union regime applicable to security in quebec.
a union is there to protect their members and their dues.
some unions will use logic to defend or not defend an employee.
however, some unions are so powerful that it is almost impossible to get an employee fired.
the best example is the teachers' union. i do not know how many incompetent teachers or simply present to have their pension.
if a teacher says on the first day that he has more than 2 years to go until he retires, you know it's going to be a long year.
more difficult but not impossible. when your position is permanent and you are a year-round employee, you really have to accumulate big nonsense or even commit a crime (theft, fraud, assault). the collective agreement clearly indicates what can be reproached to you and the mechanisms of "penalization", is it administrative (does its job badly), disciplinary (does not do its job, causes harm) etc. etc. generally (it depends on the agreement) if you have done 2 to 5 years in a regular position your permanence is confirmed and it is more difficult to prove that you are not competent / you did not stick to day because the employer is often theoretically responsible for providing you with training.
if you are unionized on a temporary or contractual position it is easy not to renew the contract or abolish the position. you will not be fired with 2 weeks notice let alone on the spot.
the union will often file a grievance to contest the causes of the dismissal and force the bosses to explain themselves vs. the agreement.
but if the union leaders don't like your face the level of defense will vary downward, they may become less zealous. and sometimes they deal with dropping grievances in order to gain benefits elsewhere.
i'm a union member and it's not "that difficult" to fire someone. but it takes good reason. for very good reason.
this is more or less true. it also depends on employee status.
for having lived it fifteen years ago, when i was occasional (and that i was unionized oh yes) when our boss decided to put all the casuals out to replace us with consultants, y he had no grievances nor an army of lawyers, nor even a meeting by our union ... nothing, bad luck.
as a permanent, it is something else. never in fifteen years have a permanent lost his job, whether good or bad. and i saw some very good and some very, very bad.
my ex went through the same thing, but it was even worse, the union was in negotiations with this school board for xyz affairs, a vice-principal decided to set her sights on my ex and have her kicked out under multiple pretext and the union did not defend her and demanded that she sign a letter indicating that she renounces all legal recourse against the union and against the school board in exchange for a ridiculous lump sum and a letter of recommendation. was 7 months pregnant, had the strength to fight and put stress on the unborn baby .. but clearly it was a baseless layoff.
so, i would tell you that it varies huge! worse in construction it looks like it's worse ...
in cegep, i had a philosophy teacher who told us that. worse it was my best session! it was really funny, telling us about a movie like snake's on the plane, and how you find your weird already in an old man's house. worse he allowed his students to repeat their exams until they passed .....
teachers are so case by case ...
i am a teacher at cegep and i second that. we should have a professional order.
there is a teacher who used to cause anxiety attacks in normal students. who escalated crises for nothing and who was clearly psychologically unstable. because this teacher had the right to be properly defended by his union, well the union was fighting to be kept!
you should also know that if a teacher thinks that his union does not represent him correctly, he can sue the union ... and it is expensive so the union just has no choice to defend the indefensible.
i am not against the union ... but the rules should be reviewed !!!
a powerful union in 2021? this is a contradiction!
indeed, i grant you, it's totally case by case.
i have had professors of sleeping philosophies but one in particular really captivated us.
to give a concrete example of an invincible teacher.
about 15 years ago, professor of literature 1. success rate of the last 6 classes, less than 25% of the pupils. four petitions asking the department to kindly look into the professor's case.
having had this teacher, i confirm that if the students spoke a little, he stopped teaching and read his book.
thank you for sharing your experience on the subject.
should there be another method of evaluating teachers? i know that you are being evaluated but, is the frequency and the method used the right one in your opinion?
when you sarcasm, put an / s at the end to keep the world from voting you down.
if you're serious, i don't mean unions when it comes time to ask for more. i'm talking about those who protect their members and their dues even if the employee deserves the door.
we would need external evaluators.
currently, there is too much emotional investment to pass harsh judgment when necessary. and lax teachers tend to tolerate ... well their own behavior. so when it is they who find themselves on the evaluation committees, the new ones do not get coached properly.
and then there is also a mechanism which allows the new ones to contest a bad evaluation and there, one enters a not cool loop (see union procedure of my other post).
in short, all this to say that the process needs to be reviewed from a to z.
what i find strange is that there are 3 in verdun, but none in westmount. coincidence?
"now with more than a thousand branches to serve you better"
- criss to conduct of employees
"is it really necessary?" - pierre-yves mcsween
in lévis, there are 2 dollaramas literally one next to the other: one in a shopping center, and the other a 5-minute walk from the said shopping center.
funny how there are relatively few dollarama per capita in longueuil compared to brossard or st-hubert
edit: on the map, the dollorama on rolland therrien is missing, near the walmart supercentre. maybe there are more
re-edit: the one at place jacques cartier is also missing, on chemin chambly at the end of ste-foy. finally longueuil at a respectable ratio. (respectable, is that the right word)
i did a quick calculation and i count no less than six dollaramas within a kilometer of my house.
there wouldn't be branches if there wasn't the demand ... someone's supply and demand? 🤔
well there, that does not count, they are all closed! / s
there are two in the dix30. it always made me laugh. one is at the entrance near the adonis, and the other is in the back row near the bulkbarn.
i live within a dollo walking distance and that makes the pure happiness of my 13 years old.
except that dollarama has been growing drastically for several years with no signs of slowing down and it's not a franchise like tim horton so if there is a dollarama at one location, there was demand.
do you still have $ 1 stuff?
not vrm
with houses at $ 1m + in brossard, there is a gang who are going to need tim's cheap coffee and dolloramas soon.
yes fac
again, there is one in nicolet (8,500 inhabitants). i expect 11 dollorama in brossard!
what is the minimum of dollarama / 100k inhabitants to obtain a pfk?
we must give life to china.
there are many, but are all closed! :)
tomorrow the walmarts please
see, it's racist your post on the dollarama number in brosswong / s
1. the government lied
2. the evaluations were managed hay spit in esti
3. the caq seems to want to hide as much as possible in this story.
the entire opposition is attacking the government on this issue. i hope we will have results.
hi group,
i have worked in rpas, chslds and even organizations for the defense of the elderly.
it's more serious than you think. there is absolutely no plan at the ministry for the elders, just improvisation depending on where it goes. and it's been since at least 2002. the last announcement of a plan, it was the seniors' houses, which was in fact the budget intended for the renovation of the chslds diverted to make some chslds which will end up in private residences like the herron.
there are an incredible number of residences which are managed in the abuse where the quality of life of the residents is literally criminal. if they ever get caught they go bankrupt and open under another name and that's legal.
it is a super risky and exploitable clientele. 1 in 3 seniors is at risk of isolation and 1 in 5 seniors is completely isolated. easy to charge them with overpriced rents and cut off their services, or even legal but questionable practices such as charging $ 10 to change a light bulb.
in short, continue this indignation so that the fate of the elderly is an electoral priority just like education, health and the environment.
so full of liars in the government and in the health ministry to save their butt, very pathetic and pathetic.
what do our usual government shills think? will they call the québec ombudsman a "conspirator"?
one of the biggest scandals in our history, thousands of deaths due to their negligence - deaths having served as a pretext for all kinds of abuse of power unthinkable since - and guess what: we will not talk about it again in a couple of hours, the media will inundate us with silliness and spend less time on it than on the next designated scapegoat among the population.
if we were still in an evolved country, this simple report would lead to the immediate resignation of the prime minister and all the ministers linked directly or indirectly and to serious criminal charges. the worst that could happen with this in neo-duplessist quebec is that marguerite blais will say that she is retiring - already planned since before the crisis - and will not run again in a year, and the caq will win the most. strong majority of our history on october 3.
remindme! july 1
tl; dr big fuck up from legault and company, and then bullshit to try to save face.
we do not dismiss a minister in the midst of a crisis for no reason.
"what i want to tell you ... is that i take care of it personally ..." you can see what it feels like when she takes care of it. i can't wait to see the mess that is done with high schools.
we can console ourselves by saying that we now have a minister appointed to the return of the nordics. it's not nothing.
/s
> it has been said over and over again that the chslds were in the blind spot of the preparations, but marie rinfret's investigation made an eloquent and unprecedented demonstration that plunged the government into embarrassment. chslds “were not taken into account by any scenario” at the start of 2020.
it is only in mid-march, when quebec decrees confinement, that the chslds are part of a plan. however, they are mainly called upon to welcome patients in order to free up hospital beds, a massive transfer for which they were not at all prepared and which has contributed to the crisis.
hmmm
the ombudsperson contradicts legault? damn conspiratorial! legault listens to the real experts! without him the pandemic would be out of control.
the worst thing about it is that it says that nothing was done before mid-april. apart from the gazette investigation which revealed the whole affair to the public, it was precisely in mid-april ...
once again, was it only after it appeared in the media that the government decided to act? would the situation have continued to deteriorate if it had not made the front page of all the newspapers in quebec?
it won't be the first foos with this government
no surprises for me.
edit longer than my comment because i type too fast without thinking sometimes:
pleasantly surprised by the report and very happy that democracy finally seems to want to talk but not surprised for a second that they were lying about it. i mean arruda was in morocco talking about cannabis.
inb4 marie rinfret is treated as a bitter terrorist.
since the start of the pandemic, i have taken the worst of it with what the government announces and affirms. i was ok with most of the steps, i got vaccinated, but the idea of compulsory vaccination for everyone ... meh. the survey shows that yes, it was not crazy to notice the contradictions in the discourse of the authorities. one thing is certain, i would not have liked it to have the job of pm and aruda.
"we have better managed the crisis that becomes on the earth"
upvoted at 67% after 19m? weird 🤔
now imagine what we don’t know about - caq govt is in way over it’s head trying to play king shit.
i wonder who downvotes op? why downvote facts? because it corresponds to your vision of the holy caq?
a party of populist jesters. public inquiries were made for less. it starts urgently.
i have always been fascinated by the title of québec ombudsman. i can't help but imagine someone wearing a superhero costume.
i do not really understand all the hubbub surrounding this event. this is the result of the management style of health managers: the jenga management style. that is to say, we remove pieces and we hope that the tower does not collapse. if it collapses, we blame an employee and secretly add the piece we had removed. we then manipulate the statistics so that it does not appear too much. if the service is on the verge of collapse, then disaster strikes when the unexpected happens.
bin, let's see you guys. the government can lie ???? !!!
yves-francois blanchet has really come a long way!
gaston lepage's dance at the end is also noteworthy.
criss, hard to believe that we haven't got our country yet
cacapoteau of quality.
when you don't have the money for an instrument, but you have the passion!
this show was called take the challenge and it was gold. it was perfect for chilling out with a little tv on the way home from school before dinner.
\ * sigh \ * i miss being a child and having no ability to distinguish what is good versus what is not.
afterwards he became leader of the bloc québécois.
reminds of another [classic] (
total crap, always a good show
"congratulations to gaston for your mouth whistling, you win a hot dog cooker. come back to us after the break for another" crazy grocery store. "
the good old times!
a lover of infantile music with troubled lips ...
my uncle was on this show, and it looks like he was playing on a missipipi board.
gaston lepage invented the confirmed floss
honestly i find it cool but maybe it's just my 4 beers that speak
"passe-partout loves crastillons"
jacques demers ladies and gentlemen!
yfb in the alternate timeline.
take up the challengeiiii!
scoorpion!  scorpion!! 
better than a slap in the face.
so people who say the vaccine does not work against transmission are wrong.
how many times are they going to repeat it?
so everyone vaccinated only regulates 40% of the transmission, so we should stop saying "ah you have your passport, you're covid proof, it's the pandemic of the unvaccinated". question that people continue to pay attention especially to karaoke and others ...
[ 
considering that we extend the usual delay, i prefer this.
but anyway, 40% is like 0%. proof that it does not work and that it is just to enrich big pharma!
40% is far from the passing mark. not a big fan of getting vaccinated with a vaccine that has only 40%. especially in the context where we don't really have a choice
do you have any studies showing that? because sometimes i have the impression that a good slap in the face would cure a couple hahah
as long as it makes people talk and generates clicks, endlessly.
i really don't want to restart the debate but that's the main reason i was and still am against the passport. there are too many people who must be thinking precisely "covid-proof" with that. it's like when they made the mask mandatory, people felt more secure and came together in the shops.
40% of transmission, but 94% of complications (according to the latest news, 16 times fewer vaccinated people are picked up in the hospital than unvaccinated people, and that's not based on the number of cases but on the impact on the total population).
that we reduce the transmission by 40% more, it's just even better!
it's not 40%, it's 40% on a questionnaire with no proof and a pretty shoddy method.
not done in the clinic.
the day we have a real test to see the degree of transmission clinically, whether it is 90% or 5% they will not talk about it so as not to sound crazy.
as now, the tests with test on the long covid shows that it does not exist more than a long influenza, therefore rare. but, we should not make seem stupid all the institutions which left the bs disappointed with questionnaires that anyone can answer. "yeah i'm sick 8 months after the covid - jean-roger who tests negative for having already had the covid"
> but anyway, 40% is like 0%. proof that it does not work and that it is just to enrich big pharma!
uh ... sarcasm?
yes, but at an efficiency rate of 40%, if 99.8% of the population is vaccinated, it will stop the spread! this is our new goal. let's open work-quarantine camps for the unvaccinated, it will probably still convince a few percentage points to go! those who die of the cold or of the covid are not entitled to care, since they are not vaccinated and therefore citizens-garbage.
the vaccine is even more effective against symptoms and hospitalizations. 40% is for transmission only. transmitting a virus and being a carrier without being sick is quite negligible especially if you are in contact with people who have been vaccinated. on the contrary in the current situation that the vaccine does its job for serious symptoms, but less for infections, i find that the passport really has its place to protect part of the population.
this is the direct effect that it created, they started to put everything on the unvaccinated by not telling the vaccinated to continue to be careful. i have done this myself several times, and i got looked at like i was a mother hen! because papa legault didn't say it, and we got used to trusting papa legault 100% and not asking questions.
yes, we know that complications and transmission are two different things, but that's not what i was talking about. i will not explain since i have already done it above, i would ramble ...
i don't know man, between you and the who, i'm going to go with the who. and take that with a little grain of salt of course… but your own theory to supplant an official who statement based on their studies (according to you shoddy), i find it very good. you must have remembered yourself well anyway!
yes, the / s was missing
i thought it would have been clear
> let's open work-quarantine camps for the unvaccinated
i wouldn't even be surprised if legault had already thought about it
people at high risk have all been vaccinated and protected for 8-10 months now… they have gotten to the 3rd dose, and the vaccine is proven to be very, very effective. i do not agree with the passport, too many contradictory and meaningless messages, given that it seems more political to me, kill two birds with one stone by making sure to come out with a covid record better than the competence of the caq (and ideally to forget the chsld disaster), and in addition it divides and stigmatizes, it is a winner for the elections.
no need. if you stay more than 72 hours, you will need it to return to canada on the other hand.
to be checked when this policy comes into effect.
edit: typo
thank you! i wanted to make sure
that's true… it's from [november 30.] ( -pcr-tests-for-canadians-vaccines-on-november-30.php)
i do not want to be in bad faith, but i chatted with my wife and she asked a good question in my opinion: could it be to slow down the vaccination in order to delay the emergence of the state of emergency? especially after the reports came out ...
i think they wrestled that the less they speak in absolute terms and with precise figures, the better.
this is because "normal parent # 29832" will have their child vaccinated no matter how the message is said by legault.
> legault: have your children vaccinated as much as possible.
> 
> normal parent # 29832: ok, i have already booked my appointment
it's "borderline parent anti-vaxx brainwasher by facebook # 872" that they are trying to coax, to try that this world does not jump the fence.
> legault: your children should be vaccinated, it's really important
> 
> parent # 872: they said that for the adults and we are still in a pandemic !!!! omg !!!! facebook was right !!!! they want to force us !!
it is strange that now it is a "personal choice" but that no plan of withdrawal of measures is announced, indeed. why keep the state of emergency if it is not critical to immunize children?
i think we all expect the withdrawal of the state of emergency and the measures to become an election promise.
> ... the less they speak in absolute terms and with precise figures, the better.
you're going to find me in bad faith in dirty this morning, but i'm really not sure about that either. i have more the impression on the contrary that people want a precise contract with clear goals and especially respected. but hey, i'll admit it might be too late for that, there would probably be very few people who would believe them.
i think your analysis is good, but i am not convinced that this is the correct method. definitely not to convince uncertain parents anyway. why? because parent # 872 might as well say to himself: "well that doesn't seem too important for the government, but clearly it is not for real so we will wait a bit to see / let it happen".
well, that's what i mean even if unfortunately (well i don't really care) i get negavoted just to ask a question, but hey ... it's in tune with the times, i imagine ... should not think too far.
anyway, that's exactly my point; they say they will lift the state of emergency after the vaccination of children and then tell us that there is no hurry and that there will be no pressure from them. they even specify '' no target '' how exactly is 'after childhood vaccination'?
it does '' needle under rock '' not bad for me, no offense to the caquettes on the sub.
> i think we all expect the withdrawal of the state of emergency and measures to become an electoral promise.
ish. worst election strategy ever if that's their plan. plans to annihilate their unprecedented advance and find themselves in the minority (let's face it, it's going to be caq anyway, the plq won't have time to come back strong, and qs still has things to eat).
barring a major turnaround (ie a new variant worse than the delta which is completely vaccine resistant), the pandemic is likely to be behind us long before the october 2022 election. at that point, it will be downright impossible to justify the state of emergency and measures, even among those who supported them the most. to put that as an electoral promise would be silly, since the other parties would have already made it their hobbyhorse for a long time.
a more credible (but no less filthy) option would be to lift the state of emergency and the measures by launching the election campaign, or just before. but again, barring a major turnaround, i'd be surprised if it didn't jump out somewhere this spring.
bahhh for the precise one will have to repeat. have you seen what's going on in europe?
we're in there for a while again i think.
> but hey, i'll admit that it might be too late for that, there would probably be very few people who would believe them.
yeah, i think we've gotten to a point where they're trying to impact the population less, for psychological reasons (mental health).
> people want a precise contract with clear and especially respected goals.
in other words, they want something impossible. we cannot predict with precision how the pandemic will evolve. suddenly, no choice to adapt as you go ...
they've tried the "get vaccinated, it's important" method with adults before and it has worked. so they are trying a new approach.
indeed.
it is not easy to broach the subject, you will always have some that will fail.
pretty sure they said 80% which in my opinion is impossible. there are a lot of people who have gone to be vaccinated out of obligation / social pressure, so will they have their children vaccinated? no chance.
can't wait to see them skate on it.
/ sigh ... yeah, good point. i haven't thought of that. i imagine everything i say falls under a big conditional of "depending on what happens in europe".
as for a good butt, that is clear to me, especially if you include everything that is likely to happen after the pandemic as you. (no i'm not talking about conspiratorial stuff, i'm talking about the collateral damage and the bickering that the investigations will bring).
to be honest i still think people would like the precise, but i grant you, will have to, at least, wait a little longer.
that's no reason to keep your population in the dark. it's so beautiful a good compromise. must say that legault must not know what it is ... to my knowledge it is the only self-proclaimed party leader, there does not seem to have much democracy within the ranks of the caq.
i mourned the precise for a part, but to work in education, believe me that one wanted some during a dirty end of the precise worse of the advances.
there, i just slaughtered my horse, it was too unlivable on a daily basis! : p
i understand you. i have a cousin with whom i chat a lot about everything that has been going on since the start of the pandemic. he's a teacher too. for clarification with roberge we will come back.
i have no children and i keep an eye on him anyway, imagine.
he should talk to the insurance companies to see what they tell him. that would be a good fake prank call.
having dark stop lights and turn signals is a real winner. to be sure to be seen! safety first well done 👌
i wonder if they live in the house opposite monseigneur-parent…
he will be entitled to a hefty ticket!
better to play mall music in that tank.
i thought i had seen it all, but it looks like it hasn't.
this kind of "mod" here annoys me so much. eille kevin the reason why your brake lights are not the same color as your tank is so that we can see them easily!
[oui](
look> security
steam autumn sale until december 1 boys'n'gurlz'n'iels
i completed naheulbeuk dungeon on switch. very good game, much more difficult than i would have imagined, especially the first 4 chapters. i still recommend doing it on the computer if possible, the loading time of the switch is rather unpleasant. the game still crashed 4 or 5 times at the end of a fight ...
i am now making metroid dread. rendered to the boss at the end and i happily get kicked in the back end ...
what are the favorite cafeteria games worth?
i bought myself shin megami tensei v last week and was hugely disappointed. i found the game to be made up of the worst sides of persona, minus my favorites.
otherwise, i'm playing borderlands 3 quite a bit right now and i'm having a lot of fun.
i bought lost judgment and the latest ratchet and clank. i can't wait to try them out, especially as r&c is nominated as game of the year!
i bought myself a ps4 like 2 weeks ago. i got the ps + pass to play online.
as a teenager, i was a mega gamer but it's been like 8 years that i haven't been a gamer in a serious way.
chu not pocket, but a little rusty. pi i have a microphone.
i have a lot of fun, but no friends to share my fun with.
do you want to be my friends? exchange aliases in mp?
76h in octopath and i went to the 4th chapter, not yet done the side-jobs.
otherwise, i bought myself paper mario for $ 30, i was curious anyway.
9 days before endwalker!
it took me a fair bit of trying to finish metroid dread. the technique that saved me was doing the super bomb (morphball) when he deploys the orange orb. it was the end that i wasn't able to do.
**love letter**, **coup**, **the resistance** (ou **avalon**), **pickomino**
** magic **, ** scopa **, ** briscola **, ** hive **, ** koi koi ** and when you have time, nothing like a bit of ** mahjong **.
i'm not too sure i know the term “cafeteria games”, but i guess they are quick and easy games.
* double
* yogi
* sushi go!
* conspiracy (it's the same as coup)
* slide quest (you have to be tipsy and upset)
* nails nails
* diamond
cut.
i am a huge fan of smt and persona. for the moment i am well hooked to smtv. the world is intriguing and the encounters are difficult as i like them. it forces me to think unlike persona. on the other hand, i am not yet far enough in the game to criticize it. as for lost judgment, i just finished it. it is very satisfying.
r&c: rift apart? it is excellent and visually stunning.
was this your first smt? even though persona was initially a spinoff series from shin megami tensei, the two have pretty much nothing in common now except demons.
the shin megami tensei series is clearly not the same as persona, it's really different. they share a dna, but they are two very different creatures, especially since the last iterations.
my god, at this point seems to me like i had finished the side jobs and all the chapters 4. do you grind a lot?
i liked the combat mechanics in octopath traveler. i did the 8 character introductory stories, then realized that i found the game to be very unattractive and left it behind. should i give the game a second chance?
thanks, i'll try again tonight. i really, really liked the game. i still found the bosses pretty tough and my son laughed at my face against escue in ferenia. the only thing i liked less is the "speed boost puzzles" to collect items. there are 4-5 that i let do, too many kids ...
me too for lost judgment! i have just started it and i am hooking more than the first to date!
if you're going to ask this question here, you probably shouldn't go into this.
you can buy fractions of btc. you don't have to (able?) to buy a suit. but on binance, coinbase, shake pay, square coin.
in the corner of the dicks.
right now its costing $ 57,738.63 usd and you can buy it on a platform like [wealthsimple] (
$ 12 each
don't buy cryptocurrency you'll just lose money
you can buy some at [bullbitcoin.com] (
otherwise, if you are in montreal, you can get some at the yap bitcoin exchange in old montreal and pay in cash.
buy yourself a trezor or coldwallet of the kind to keep them offline. it will prevent you from losing everything in case of hacking.
there are a lot of podcast and youtube channels that explain how it works and why it is the 'apex predator' against the current banking system. 
tip: ignore the people who have been saying for years that bitcoin is a scam ... they've always been wrong and will continue to be. seriously, people with that opinion aren't knowledgeable enough on the subject
to make things easier for you (op), i suggest you buy crypto-based etfs, like tsx: ebit or tsx: ethx.b
alley 69?
it seems to me that for now, it is not possible to take your btc out of wealthsimple, right?
it says "coming soon" for the cashout ...
in the fishmonger's department.
you say the same thing since 2017 when btc was at $ 3000. you will have to change the disc at some point.
good advice from danny, the guy who works as a tech support on the phone, a real wealthy finance guy who will retire at the young age of 65 if the boomers haven't upped that to 70-75.
it is not a scam but it is 100% speculative with as only basis what one thinks that gamblers will have like behavior in the future.
indeed and if you hold this in a tfsa your no tax on your possible capital gain .. except that you cannot deduct your losses
no. 1337, aisle 69, room 420
[deleted]
it is in no way speculative if we take the time to fully understand the history of money and the usefulness of bitcoin in the current and future climate.
i advise you to read the book the bitcoin standard (it's available in french). it can help you better understand why it's healthy money.
i too thought it was speculative for years, but when i took the time to educate myself on it, i changed my mind. it is complex and it is not by reading opinion pieces in the newspapers that the world can really learn more about the subject. just my 2 cents
i started with 1000 $ in 2017
i have been living this since, i had to start over at a lot of 0 in 2020 because i took everything out after losing my things in real life due to covid .. and i am still back in retirement.
there are a lot of people who lose, but it's not the world with open eyes who pay attention.
i have known a lot of guys who started out like you with small mining, and have gone a long way. including 1 who controls an american stock market mining company.
1961 was before the education reform in quebec. it was also at the end of the great darkness, where duplessis was selling quebec * cheap labor *.
tldnr: the more you speak french the poorer you are.
tel us again about freedom and democracy. (ml)
we have just understood michael rousseau, he was afraid of losing income.
.03% of unilingual french britons ??? seal wadding???
[source] ( book iii - the world of work - volume 3a or direct link:
the table is on page 32 of the pdf
strange as a statistic. i knew it was distributed roughly like this, but there probably must be a better reference somewhere. do canada's statistics include quebec? why are there almost twice as many bilinguals as unilingual french among francophones?
i just saw that it is for the non-agricultural population so probably that excludes a very important part of the population.
it is nonetheless surreal that bilinguals earned significantly less than unilingual anglophones in quebec.
"non-agricultural male labor force"
i wonder how that affects the statistics. i had seen that overall, the french speaking average in 60 was 51% of english speakers.
do we know the average salary of quebec farmers, excluded from these statistics? i imagine that most of them would be unilingual francophones, and that the average would be even lower: /
are we talking about annual income ??
but he was defending his nation. he wasn't a woke ...
tldr: french-speaking quebec under the domination of the catholic church and under duplessis kept the population in a state of low education, of * cheap labor * for american companies, preventing married women from working and forcing them to have the maximum amount of money. children.
in fact, it was more like this: less english - less income.
(your tldr does not seem to match the data for bilingual people.)
"spoke"
the less education you have, the poorer you are.
worse at that time, if you spoke french, you had little or no education.
with a [link] ( for those who would like to \ [re \] listen to the reference
full of francophones of ethnic origins from the british isles to quebec.
probably assimilated irish.
michael rousseau (the unilingual english-speaking ceo of air-canada) got the message
> restaurants should be owned by employees that would solve a lot of problems
spotted le cegepien marxiste-leniniste
i don't know, i'm reading the gazette article linked by laparesse and dude just says he has his helmet on, that he doesn't like it anymore. a few months before the pandemic he was starting to be sober after rehab. here - hey, his perception has changed and the stress of the pandemic which pushes you to close / lose inventories was too much. but seriously, he talks above all about himself - he realizes that he has become an old grump - and of what he wants to do now that he has the means to choose, he does not talk about young people who are not valiant wicked wokes-poo.
> restaurants should be owned by employees that would solve a lot of problems.
what is stopping them in starting one?
[deleted]
he's been working there for 30 years and the stress that comes with it. he can retire if he wants to.
op, unless you work there and go for information that we don't have, your comment is rubbish
good riddance the emptying!
i hate that people think income is more important than net worth for these types of question.
i heard he was paying his staff $ 30 / hr, hence the closure.
source that he is a millionaire?
a food lover with a troubled soul ...
i have the same understanding .. but it's more glamorous for the "anti-work" to shit on the big bad boss!
long live dave in his next adventures.
> dude is just saying that he has his helmet on, that he doesn't like it anymore.
he has the finger.
they don't have capital ...
this is not even the case, the article even mentions that he does not wish to comment on his departure.
it does not close, the chef has sold his shares to the two other owners!
trust me bro
the worst part is that they would have it. 20 employee owners, 10k of love money for each, you have a budget of 200k. there are a lot of restaurants that go with me just that.
now run a business with 20 co-owners, but let's say the implosion odds are quite high.
indeed, the article was updated at 20:10 and there is now more information on his journey. thank you !
it was a joke in reference to another post from op.
> 10k of love money for each
do you know any waitresses who have that aside?
ciborium that the world who have money (or who believe they have) are disconnected.
they made a beautiful video a few years ago
and i've been hearing about these ideas for at least 20 years.
this kind of project takes you time to start. here we see that it is in full swing.
the very notion of "downtown" in this magma of bungalows that is brossard is still quite hilarious ...
brossard ... the smallest city on the south shore ... no charm and massive destruction of conglomerates.
it's even more of capitalism, it's a bastard version of it, shaped by governments and the wealthy.
the real problem is the leaders, and it is for this reason that i am of the opinion that whatever government / system is put in place, be it conservatives, social democrats or socialists (democratic) , there is going to be abuse.
but i understand, it would be fun to have a fairer economic model, other than capitalism, so the heart of the system is the lure of profit. the idea of maximizing profit has its limits.
but who is pulling the strings at jf lisée?
is qs going to come up with the kind of baffle that once ripped apart the pq?
we are talking about a party that prefers to renounce its ideals in order to be more electable. i believe that there is a certain parallel to be drawn between this situation and the pq which stopped talking about sovereignty when they were high in the polls (this situation had also led to the creation of option nationale).
on the other hand, if qs really wants to be in government one day, this kind of decision is inevitable. it remains to be seen if they will survive
are you ready? i bring out my memory success .... "left neoliberal !!!"
“in doing so, they buried their party's anti-capitalist mission. fundamentally nothing distinguishes them from the once-hated social democrats. they have fallen into line. they no longer ask 'the real questions'. big day for capitalism. i'm not saying that the existence of qs, so far, prevented him from sleeping. but he can now sleep even deeper. "
exactly what i barely said yesterday ....
i don't think qs is fundamentally capitalist anymore. the party is trying to "refocus" a bit to get more voters, which is not bad at all. a party that advocates outright socialism will never be elected in north america, and i think qs has come to understand that.
indeed, when you are on the far left and you want to refocus, no choice to go to the right
[please bring me a blank] (
look at the source, we ignore them.
lisée:
"qs is far too radical"
also lisée:
"qs is not radical enough"
i have the impression that lisée gets up in the morning and is angry with qs. if his coffee is not good in the morning he exclaims: "chalice qs it's your fault"
it is not capitalism in itself that is the problem, it is its current version where it is no longer a question of making profit, but of making as much profit as possible, where the rich do not want to make money. 'money, they want all the money and where the only source of pride in a company is its annual report and not the quality of its product.
in fact, in my opinion, we should rather review the division of profits between capital and labor. at the moment the major investors simply have too much money and allow themselves to buy the law, which accentuates the div ... anyway, we know the song made there.
i found it very sad to read this this morning. the finding is clear. young people have abandoned the idea of a system other than capitalism. the new left has accepted that capitalism is here to stay and is simply trying to fix the problems caused by it piecemeal. we fill the barrel instead of fixing the hole.
when you're convinced of that, it's not easy to accept.
no, this is the real face of capitalism. much like the soviet union under stalin, maoist china, pol pot's cambodia and cuba are true communism. ideas are not reality. their crystallization is. and just as communism crystallizes in totalitarian horror, capitalism crystallizes in ... this.
etk, i know sylvie bergeron is pulling her favorite string.
far left ... it depends on perceptions. in europe, qs would be a center-left party, not even a "regular" left, so we are far from communism or anarchy ...
<3
> it is not capitalism in itself that is the problem, it is its current version where it is no longer a question of making profit, but of making as much profit as possible, where the rich do not want to money, they want all the money and where the only source of pride in a company is its annual report and not the quality of its product.
so capitalism.
as if the other systems would not have "holes" or "problems". hahaha ciborium
because capitalism is the best system we have. the system in itself is good, it is simply our political class which is incapable of properly managing it.
and if the problem is political, a planned economy is by no means the solution.
??? can you get me a list of alternatives to capitalism?
> "we look like a gang of bougons!" claudette started, on the verge of tears and rage in her heart.
> "she [valérie lemercier], she bought herself a trip, a nasty trip on céline's back!"
for people who have seen the movie, is it really that much worse than that?
the press says much the same thing.
the dions demolish aline 
who is valérie mercier, the world talks about her as if she were super famous ...
i don't have the "background" but is it supposed to be parody or satirical, inspired or biographical from reality?
it seems to me that in another life i had heard on a radio station that the director / producer / whatever absolutely wanted to make a film about celine's life. but clearly that "rené" did not want.
they did the same.
note: i have a crappy memory and i may have made it up from scratch. it's my wife who says that.
it is exceptionally bad in terms of telling, even fictionalized and altered, the story of celine dion.
if celine dion does not exist in the imagination keb, it is more tolerable, but even there, it is quite ordinary
mind you, jean-bobin is officially the first name of qc now
the few reviews i have seen are quite positive
now
“first of all, valérie lemercier's accent is zero and it really stands out among all the quebec players. already, things are starting badly for the credibility of the project. imagine a quebec actress who would play edith piaf - or judith pilaf - speaking with a saguenay accent, it wouldn't work. "
i laughed in tabarnak!
a french actress. google her beautiful film where she is in blackface: agathe cléry
valérie lemercier is an actress really known in france.
i like this passage from a review that sums up the designer's fad.
"" we feel that valérie lemercier put a lot of herself in this film. she is quite swollen because playing the little 6-year-old girl with her face today, it still has a very strange effect. has almost a zouk side of the time and we feel that what pleases him about this character is the celebrity. ”
it's not celine's biography but valérie mercier using celine's backstory to sell herself.
clearly, the details of celine's life are of little importance to her. she didn't want to tell her story. she does not understand anything about quebec culture.
if i'm not mistaken, what is far from certain is suppose to be a 'tribute' in the form of a fictionalized biography, question of not being sued, but hey, my interest ends there . i won't see that, i have too many other things not to do before like wasting my morning on reddit.
wait, did a french actress take on celine ?? wtf
looks like a full sh * t show this movie story o_0
it's kind of what made me ask myself questions after reading the article in la presse, it seems that the dion family does not see it the same way that the creators and the funny names come to confuse everything.
exactly.
if people are interested, valérie lemercier and sylvain marcel were at tout le monde en parle on sunday to talk about it.
she is the director ..... she chose herself .....
the positive reviews i have read have analyzed the film as a fictional film.
the negative reviews analyzed the film as a biography.
i don't understand how you can critique a movie without considering the inspirational material. it is simply bad! it's lazy. it is the work of a narcissist.
cringe
i'm gonna highjack this post.
whenever we talk about a labor shortage, perhaps we are talking about the pcre, perhaps the demographic pyramid, wages or working conditions.
however, we always forget to compare the level of education between generations.
[
not the easiest graph to read, but compare the degree with the highest proportion of female graduates. in two generations, we went from having a high school diploma in the top 2 to being almost last.
in men, it is less drastic as a measure.
in the end, there will be no young woman to replace suzanne, whom everyone appreciates, close to retirement in the minimum wage job.
edit: i added the link to the graph which was not there originally.
it seems to me that to speak of a labor shortage is to look through the wrong end of the telescope.
we should rather be talking about a surplus of jobs. there are too many businesses, restaurants, shops, * for the population who can fill the positions *. it is much easier to close, sell, merge 500 companies than to find 10,000 new quebecers of working age.
the government has much more control over the variable "number of jobs" than over the variable "active population". shouldn't the market be self-regulating? what, we no longer trust the invisible hand of supply and demand?
for those who just click on the headlines and not read, this article is worth it, it's pretty short too.
i had already read articles by mickaël bergeron that i liked and that was no exception.
i think he approaches the problem without actually naming it however, the reason we don't do anything until the problem happens is that it threatens the short term profits which are the basis of 90% of our company. this is the principle of the empty toilet roll, it is the problem of the next person.
> "governments are not equipped to act in the long term", deplores françois delorme. with four-year terms, governments spend a lot of time managing their re-election rather than managing for the long term. so we end up with small-sighted decisions.
problem # 1 with our system of government. any decision is based on a calculation with the goal of re-election. this explains very well why big long term problems (even the very obvious ones) are completely ignored in favor of small short term wins to win votes.
example: the new minister of nordics of the caq…. don't worry about climate change, the priority is hockey in quebec !!
think about it a little: for over 40 years, bosses have had a good time pissing off employees, but those days are over.
it's very hard to have to adapt to changes when you're a boss (but not for the employees, because you didn't have the choice to suffer the increase in the amount of must you eat). think about your bosses, now, it's going to be a lot harder for them now, and we're happy to be able to give them back all the shit we've had!
> some right-wing politicians say the left has abandoned these workers, but the whole of society has failed them. in the name of economic growth, our company does not hesitate to sacrifice working conditions. management "myopic", to use the expression of françois delorme, where individual interest comes before collective interest.
this a billion times. already the analysis of social classes has taken a landing by the conviction that "it is finished, everything is beautiful now, it is just a personal matter", i am happy that the author underlines this point. because the entire world of work, including the issue of wages, labor in general, working conditions and its workers, has been forgotten since the solidification of unions into central unions. these centers now aim to maintain their membership and slow down the loss of achievements as long as possible. there is no longer any real affront or struggle to change the labor code (which is quite outdated and not for the benefit of working people) or even to target a society emancipated from this madness of work at 48 hours + per week. the analytical grid of the labor / capital relationship must come back on the radar - and quickly.
why keep work as a chore in order to support yourself and our remaining free time be used to forget how much this chore pisses us off on a daily basis? we always save the economy and not those who make it to the point of no longer eating and getting into debt.
there are too many restaurants
honestly, i'm pretty much convinced that what pcu has done is given the opportunity to a lot of people to turn around and train for a new profession when previously they were stuck in the wheel of the world. daily life and debts.
i think the author also underestimates the proportion of work below the table.
it's trudeau's fault. / s
there is no shortage of manpower in quebec, only a shortage of good employers and that has been a long time. good employers have no trouble finding staff.
i also notice that bad bosses have a lot more misery in general. it's contextual and anecdotal but i have no / little problem finding people compared to many others; and this in a sector in short supply.
i also noticed that with the current nomadism of workers, if you have been a good employer, they will come back and the effort is not wasted.
in short, a big question of adapting to the market. if you have a policy that even you wouldn't follow, it just shouldn't exist.
however, the problem with this is that there is a ton of job required that does not require a degree. it is not because 100% of your population would have a university degree that you have just eliminated all the jobs that do not require one. post-secondary education is important, but we have so much dangled in the past that if you go to university you are going to have a good job, that at the moment in many fields we have a surplus of people with diplomas so that it is lacking in jobs that do not require it.
it's crazy ! a drop of 45% for both sexes for 54+ to 30% and 20% for men and women respectively.
all the jobs without qualifications are going to have a hard time replacing everyone there. our culture only promotes success through education. jobs without qualifications don't make anyone dream, there is neither money nor prestige to be found there.
more arguments for universal basic income. people would have much less trouble doing a job without qualifications if it allowed them to make ends meet properly, rather than slaving away 5 days a week, often weekends, for peanuts and just enough to survive.
i hadn't thought of that at all, thank you very much for sharing.
indeed, it affects the aspect of the text which speaks of climate change: degrowth is a solution to the "shortage" of labor. i would like to see how many tim hortons and similar restaurants have opened in recent years. if we want to do everything is in everything, urban sprawl has among other things caused the duplication of tons of businesses which now have difficulty in engaging.
> what, we no longer trust the invisible hand of supply and demand?
that just serves to justify shitting on employees.
> we should instead be talking about a surplus of jobs.
we should talk about full employment.
we do not talk about the problem like that because it would imply a retraction of the economy. by the time supply and demand rebalance, there would be a point where growth would be negative.
the people who lead us would rather bring tens of thousands of people from elsewhere per year, treat them like cheap labor, and change the culture and identity of western peoples for eternity, than having to justify a 0.5% decline in gdp.
it's been 30 years that the "success" for a government is when you create jobs, when you attract companies with great blows of subsidies and tax credits.
when a company is bad, money is injected to keep it (ie bomber esti black hole of public funds).
i don't think i will see that in the next few years, a government that would admit the failure of our model and that would "backtrack" by admitting that we have too many jobs.
in any case, it pays much more for the government to want to continue with growth. more taxes, more taxes, more income. the easy solution is going to be immigration, i guarantee you (not that i am against it, far from it).
ahh because some products that i like (a little too much) were starting to run out of stock everywhere.
so much the better if their negotiations progress!
the saq runs dry without us lol. shut up all this for me. the saq the sqdc. close all branches and we will organize ourselves online. the advice of the great experts of the saq there, if you believe in that i do not know what to say to you.
the pickaxe with its canadian flag. hey lord, we're not done.
i think it's a good move to gain sympathy, the people are tired of paying the price for these problems.
simple question for someone who is more interested in this more ready than me: is it still bawling or are their requests justified and reasonable?
they couldn't find more wine to get drunk in the evening when they came back from the picket line?
(joke lala, i don't have an opinion on the conflict)
[deleted]
yes yes, a strike started 3 days ago is the reason that the products are out of stock. 3 days. mmmhmm.
without collective agreement since april 2021.
> to justify the use of strike action, the union believes that workers have far from competitive wages and that they have to work too many hours of overtime, due to the shortage of manpower, which risks cause occupational health and safety problems.
> "we are always ready to negotiate, as soon as possible, a satisfactory agreement for both parties", underlines the spokesperson, yann langlais-plante.
yes yes, without agreement since april. negotiate as soon as possible. if the best time is around 7-8 months ...
source of quotes: 
well it works by almost daily continuous supply of branches. go look for affordable products in the saqs in the greater montreal area ... even today several shelves were particularly empty, especially when it came to affordable vodkas and rums.
there may be other factors, but it seems very plausible to me that it caused a significant impact. and besides, that's the point of a short-term strike, right? this is their argument. that they are an essential link. they are not wrong, clearly.
i think it is more the multiple announcements of shortages made by the multiple media to be expected in the saqs because of a potential strike and not the strike as such that caused the most damage.
mix this with some alcoholic ti-cloune which says "not true that jvo po admits to alcohol for nowel pout esti ma go empty the place!" who also bought ass paper in spring 2020.
anyone have something to know if they're telling the truth? when in doubt, i think we can assume he is lying.
they were not destroyed, it was a copy and paste in error when they wanted to move the documents for the arrival of the nordics in quebec. / s
there must be a few who won't have a good night going through the * tape backups *.
you can't destroy something that isn't written down!
someone is clearly lying 😉
the way he responds so quickly with certainty, when all the players on the pitch contradict each other, lets me believe he is lying.
if he touches his nose, he is telling the truth. if he's scratching his chin, he's telling the truth. as soon as he opens his mouth, however ...
he's a showman, a tank salesman, but with incompetence and arrogance as a bonus, not great for a prime minister. i would say about as “honorable” as charest, if we give him time to take root properly in the corruption system.
it's the impression it gives me, the certainty of not getting caught with it
holy, is that a (good) joke from the 1968 bye-bye?
edit: bye bye 1971, [pour robert bourassa](
he doesn't breathe the truth, he must have a stuffy nose.
great. no action from the bdc because millions of morons fomo in real estate. esti.
tell me that we are in a huge real estate bubble, without telling me that we are in a huge real estate bubble.
how many agents have i seen write on facebook that anyway $ 100,000 more at 0.99% is not even $ 100 per month, are you really going to miss your dream home for $ 100 per month?
worse the world liked by finding that it looks good….
no shit? how many households are leaning against the piton with their variable rate mortgages whose payment represents half of their monthly gross income? and even if they are the ones who strike the imagination, it's just the tip of the iceberg. the world of finance is crowded with investments in cheap borrowed capital. the stock market explosion is undoubtedly also boosted by loan purchases. even alternative “investments” (i use the word very loosely), like cryptocurrency, are based on low-interest borrowing.
it'll hurt like hell if it's not done with the attention of a surgeon.
if interest rates go up, households that are not house poor will pick up everything.
hello affordable chalet!
it's been written in the sky for a long time. by the end of 2022, an increase in interest rates is inevitable.
1% and more and check bankruptcies ... but i don't think we're going to get there, it will be a baby recession and that's it.
lol like i can afford a house anyway
please increase the rates
the rates must be raised.
brrr forever
excellent, my chalet, my downtown condo and my new home in florida pay for themselves.
\ - there is no real estate bubble.
\ - cool, we will be able to increase rates to curb inflation
\ - no, because otherwise it will burst the bubble that does not exist.
i know that can be pedantic, but the bdc is the development bank of canada and not the bank of canada, they are not the same organizations despite their similar names.
welcome to 2011 i imagine.
not only are people using the money from low rates to invest / reinvest in real estate instead of "running the economy", with interest rates so low you have no choice but to be in. the stock market or real estate to have a return.
worse inflation is buying today for fear that everything will be more expensive tomorrow and it's been like 30 years that we have been told that "real estate cannot go down in quebec".
you get a house!
you get a house!
everybody gets a house!
seriously there are banks and young families who missed their personal finance class
bankers have been warning their customers for over a year that if rates go up, they go bankrupt.
sometimes i tell myself that we will almost deserve what is to come ...
soon a good gang of those with assets and / or a lot of liabilities will start whining that they are paying too much tax and that the government is in too much debt (ironically), and here we are again for a decade of rule. "fiscally responsible" conservatives who are cutting services.
it would be sad if it wasn't so predictable.
ha! not bad naive to believe that it would be individuals and not the big portfolios who will collect bankruptcies! in economic crises, the average people never come out on top.
[deleted]
*laughs in 2 1/2*
i have the impression of hearing certain acquaintances who do not watch the amount they put on their cards and only pay the minimum for certain cases.
managing money is basic math. addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. if some are not able to control their compulsive buying, well that's their problem. i say compulsive buying, because certain financial problems are different.
good archive video.
it reminds me of the huissier show on noovo in season 5. a youngster buys a car for $ 14,000 on credit. the problem is, she doesn't have a credit history.
so she didn't want help from her parents to get a credit history she wanted to do it on her own. so, we loaned him 14,000 for 17% interest and after 3 years his debt was around $ 19,000, because he was not able to pay that amount of interest and was only paying the minimum. that's why the bailiff was there.
it was peculiar how she didn't understand what she was getting into.
can you get me the formula to calculate the compound interest? that would help me bcp
i like the [bank of canada] calculator (
there is also the website [manage your money better] ( which is really good, because you can calculate with the addition of savings regular.
otherwise alloprof popularizes the principle well [here] (
not too followed that, but it is not rather "assigned a minister" to the nordics? like take an existing minister and say "yo squeal this over your endless pile of files." i don't think there is a new minister 100% dedicated to this
bread and circuses!
not sure that we should be bragging about his two montrealers there, for example.
montrealers ... they have what, 10 years of living in montreal together?
yeah, texting bubbles make facebook screw up. and it's not as if trudeau has a very strong credibility in government efficiency.
"montrealer"
worse right after kamala bragged about 1000x times she has kept innocent people in jail because to do otherwise would damage her reputation as a prosecutor.
environment <sport
except that it is the minister of finance who takes care of it. seems to me that he has something else to squeal than his.
right in that. it would be the same with the expos.
you have to distract the world so that they don't ask themselves too many questions in the voting booth ...
trudeau lived in montreal from 1984 to 1994, and from 2002 to 2013. (21/50 years)
harris lived in montreal from 1976 to 1981. (5/57 years)
he is not the one who manages his accounts in tax havens. he has plenty of time to shout about other things.
it's a change from manitou college to la macaza.
very cool but forgive my ignorance, why is there no science curriculum?
very wholesome indeed, thanks for sharing!
that they closed in 1976 to turn it into a prison. 👀
we were disgusting with the natives in quebec and that was a glaring example.
because it is a small establishment of around 100 students with more relaxed entry rules than the
ordinary cegep.
we wish them to grow and diversify their program offer. i would love to teach in such an establishment, but my discipline is not necessarily a priority in a small cégep
f u c k
as hard as it is to imagine that but my grocery store will end up selling its coconut or maple cheerios. just thinking about it is gross.
such unhealthy food can keep it there. cereals it's just marketing there's nothing good in it it's mainly desserts it's so sweet.
is it me or is the cereal already not affordable (except at costco where it looks good)? but like in 3/4 of the grocery stores i have the impression it's close to $ 7 for a little box crunch that would barely make you 3 bowls.
good bin i imagine that we will have to go back to the wheetabix ...
could be worse, it could be tourtiere st hubert
it tastes like cardboard anyway.
as long as it's not my fruit loops.
will climb? conjugated in the future? there are already boxes at a listed price of $ 11.79 per unit for sale at my local metro.
hmm, looking at the list, these are mostly ultra-transformative products. i wonder if more basic products are going to experience such increases.
ban grains from your diet.
they have already made it with maple.
oh no!
plain cheerios, 1 g of sugar
at walmart its price / quantity level
yep
don't buy it in the grocery store unless it's on special. in addition, the boxes have undergone massive shrinkflation for some time. you easily get double for the same price at costco. the 1.3kg of cinnamon croque is about $ 8 if i remember correctly. it is similar to multi-grain cheerios.
it is a trap for parents who go to do their grocery shopping with children who are kidding so much that they buy cereals to silence them.
your intent will be endlessly recognized…
your spouse, not so much!
[deleted]
basic products are more expensive already. the 20kg of flour at costco is $ 2 more expensive than in early 2020, roughly 15% more.
ssssshhh ... look over there! the nordiques of quebec!
well no see, legault and arruda saved quebec. it's pretty conspiratorial to think otherwise.
st-pierre plamondon is against science! modit plot!
someone from the caq is going to call him a conspirator, it'll be on the front page for two days, instead of the real story, and we'll never hear about it again.
pierre-paul is quite right.
attention diversion, shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!
hahahaha so much more.
the caq: a party of incompetent liars.
“incompetence kills. spread the word. vote cautiously ”
would have to find one also for the lies.
do you remember?
“we give ourselves a perfect score in the management of the pandemic” - legault
to all those who gave them blind support: if you are capable of thinking, i hope you will use it from now on!
it would take a state of emergency in the assembly, to crush this government… it would only last 10 days!
i wouldn't say they are incompetent, but there was interference.
repost 
being a liar is a prerequisite for being in politics. document yourself before you criticize
they are bastards. there is no limit to their behavior and their lack of integrity and their crass incompetence.
also, i don't think the other parties would have done * much * better
ah yes… deciding to fill the chslds with the old people of the hospitals, it is not incompetence. and say in february not to fear the virus at all and claim that it is not more dangerous than the flu, when you are director of public health, what do you call that? in the case of arruda, whom his job requires to be aware of the who alerts, it is not incompetence. it's downright criminal. this guy should be behind bars.
another outraged caquist troll ...
“integrity is for losers”
- xxist century assholes
in some countries they get jailed or dismissed for such lies, but in quebec they can say and do anything, because we don't remember… or we just remember being cave.
i am of the opinion that the recurring incompetence / dishonesty of our politicians somewhat reflects our own integrity as a society.
now, we are going to talk about the return of the nordics and they will all forget in time to say it.
so look at the statistics. if quebec had resisted the pandemic like ontario and had had the same death rate, covid-19 would have claimed about 3,700 victims instead of 10,000 since the start of the health crisis. so, not sure that with barette at the helm, it would end in the same way, even if i don't like the character at all.
[link] (
read on my fb: "after that stop complaining if your children are sick or can no longer make you small children"
oh no! the zinfins !!
3 million dose already given in the united states without a single case of myocarditis.
okay so when is the end of the “state of emergency “ ?
do any of you have experience with "rapid covid test kits"? i'm just getting started with my research. i believe it might be useful for testing unvaccinated employees where i work
i booked 2 appointments on clicsanté for nov 24 - it already seems open to 5-11 year olds.
you can book on clicsante right now.
as we read yesterday, no one is going to be upset with you if you are in the category that has good reason to fear for the health of their child. this category is however very limited.
on the other hand, if your reason is bogus, don't expect a lot of empathy. your children have already received several vaccines and have already produced a lot of viral mrna.
and in closing, for darwin's sake, stop believing what jobine wrote on fb.
i made an appointment for my daughter on november 29!
[ 
i can't wait to see if the coverage is going to be as fast as this.
i can't find ... is this age group talking about an emergency authorization or a regular authorization?
thank you.
calisse that people are idiots. i lived with infertility for 5 years and boom, a month after my first dose of pfizer i got pregnant lol.
> can no longer make you little children
the person could have said “cannot have any more children”. seriously, what a shitty attitude no one owes you little children.
i hope with all my heart that the vaccine will make us infertile or create a new human race with a life expectancy of less than 30 years.
read with criquette rockwell's accent.
yes but the effects to the long terms, imagine in 5 years, or 10, or 50 ......
if this is true and reliable as a source, it is excellent news.
> a single case of myocarditis.
and does anyone know the consequences of myocarditis? i think i have read that the cases of myocarditis in children are also resolved relatively well. it takes a visit to the hospital but looks like it has a very low death / complication rate.
i'd say about a 9 months ago.
uh, let's say ... when 80% of the children will be vaccinated
-legault
what do you mean by "adventure tourism"?
i am more or less certain of the question you are asking.
there is already adventure tourism in quebec ... and quebeckers who have adventure tourism businesses. we even have an open-air ferry over here. it is a growing market.
otherwise, when it's for day-long activities, i call on these kinds of companies. i was even thinking of going for a 3 day long trek training course to help me do some on my own afterwards.
for longer trips, i prefer to organize my things myself. i don't like traveling in a group and having to keep up with other people. introvert requires.
fort boyard? yes sir!
"should i get my children vaccinated?"
answer: yes
thank you for sharing! if it can convince a few, it's already good.
you vaccinate and that's it
i know, and i intend to have my boy vaccinated when the vaccine is authorized for children under 5 years old.
but here, it is not a question of reassuring people who have closed the intention to have their children vaccinated, but rather those who hesitate.
it is not necessary with "yes" or "you vaccinate it is all" a little condescending that you will convince people. you don't attract flies with vinegar.
note, the people who sometimes comment on the law articles page and who say they don't "want to poison" their children, i don't think it will convince them, but evidence, presented objectively, could help those who have problems. fears.
this is the worst approach to convince the undecided.
"do it and be firm, shut up and ask no questions."
the article is really well written, it could help those who have doubts.
fun fact, for some fly (drosophilidae) vinegar is a very effective way to attract them. since these lay eggs in overripe fruit, they are attracted to the products of the oxidative biocleavage of sugar, namely acetic acid (vinegar) and ethanol.
as for the child vaccine, i am grudgingly screeching to have mine vaccinated and i confirm that it is not with injunctions and social pressure that i will be convinced.
you have a good point.
for fruit flies, the most effective is apple cider vinegar!
it's true that everyone has to pitch in a natural products store on black friday ...
very courageous especially when you know that the lines are long on black friday in front of the organic products store. it elbows.
"must not be too much consumer, its good!" said the lady, smiling, in front of two tons of products bottled in fucking plastic.
cringe.
stop over-consuming but come see us to buy products that will help you consume less like reusable bottles at 20 dollars each !!
i'm going to tell you an amazing secret against heavy drinking: if you don't need something, buy it.
i know it's hard to believe, but it is possible. people are environmentalists and anti-consumerism until the cossins they love to buy get singled out.
it's so illogical that it turns into a fishtail and it makes sense not wanting to say anything. host ... chu étourid ....... i'm going to take an aspirin .....
another thing in my checklist of things that i get stuck in
video from last year:
[
she advertises for free which her customers probably like, knowing full well that her black friday sales volume is the same as every other day anyway.
packed by kids in bangladesh.
acetaminophen and ibuprofen are offended by your comment.
long list ✅
your video is people in the united states who fit into a victoria secret. what is the link with a chain of 3 stores that sell natural products?
…what?
o_o
yup. free advertising and a feeling of superiority: long live virtue.
😂
are they all totons ?!
yup! ostentatious virtue.
ok, ok, take my upvote ...
> again, if one or the other of mrs. mccann, mr. gendron or dr. arruda spoke of a directive in january, we could plead the forgetting of a person ...
> but when these three witnesses tell the same falsehood to coroner kamel, it smacks of concertation to give a positive spin to something that is not, to blame subordinates in the cisss and in the ciusss.
> the worst, in this falsehood sung in chorus by mrs. mccann, mr. gendron and dr. arruda?
> it is useless: everyone would understand what the protector understood, that is to say that decades of dysfunction tripped our health system, in early 2020, as many other systems in the west have tripped.
> but the pm team, obsessed with comms and its image, is made that it thinks it has to spin even the things that can not be blamed.
lagacé certainly sees the spotlight here, that's also populism. better a gross lie than take the blame and admit that there are problems that even they cannot solve.
> than to take the blame and admit that there are problems that even they cannot solve.
i am going to take this opportunity to ask a question that has stuck with me for a while: i am 46 years old and i have always believed that, especially for generations younger than mine, it was not the right method. accepting blame and trying to resolve it paid more politically?
do i have any ideas or is it an impression that others have?
preventive edit: obviously i'm talking about the general trend, not the specificity of each. apparently there are even 20-year-old caquettes ... it's young in the dirty to become my uncle it seems to me.
i did business with emploi quebec in february 2020, i was supported by an employment assistance organization and in june, i found a new job.
if you put in the effort it will happen quickly
i did business with them when i was unemployed, i had paid college training + a bonus to my unemployment benefit during my lessons.
> i have two health problems which prevent me from working a "normal" job such as standing for a long time like tim's or sitting for too long like a desk.
fyi, maybe a table that goes up or down at will with an electric button? to work standing or sitting down when you feel like it.
my sympathies
at a minimum, they can refer you to a specialized employment agency with these kinds of problems. like the spinal cord in montreal for people with back problems.
they paid me for training to be an administrative assistant and i have been working in the field for 4 years. the best is to explain your situation and at least try.
good luck!
i don't know that well. but i have a nephew at the time (it's been like 20 years) who was trying to find a first real job despite a year of research (tag, too stressed in interviews) and who asked for help at emploi quebec. it was given that or benon social assistance. he had a dep anyway, and some skills. they found him a unionized job in his line in 6 weeks, they accompanied him to the interview and worst of all. he's still working on it.
100% anecdotal and i'm sure it's not usually as magical, and maybe it's been as good as it used to be ... but let's just say for that i would recommend seeing what they can do for you. you never know. in addition, employers are more flexible these days.
from 1: my sympathies
de 2: to get the public juggernaut moving, you have to ke gosser, it's silly, but that's it. my mother got a family doctor from sending handwritten letters sometimes. if you call emploi qc enough, it will eventually happen.
from 3: depending on your status, where you live and your certified skills, you can get paid for professional training. not an undergraduate doctorate in medicine or a 4-year baccalaureate in engineering, but a training that will help you get back on track. in general, jobs in demand that give benefits to have manpower
my brother went through their program after a few years of homelessness.
he started without his des he is now in the process of completing his dep. it seems to be good.
my sympathies.
as for jobs, there are currently dozens of accelerated study programs largely subsidized by the government (virtually no fees, scholarships paid per month for the duration of the training, etc ...).
if emploi quebec is not going to guide you, you can always do a google search and that should direct you to the right resources.
good luck!
my sympathies <3
go see a guidance counselor. they are specialized to help you reframe your needs and your realities of life in connection with a quick but above all personalized return to work.
employ quebec and if you are in montreal, there is access to jobs in montreal (it must have existed in other regions as well).
there are also organizations that help find jobs for people with disabilities that they can refer you to.
if you can get training in administration or it that would be best of best.
i know that there are programs that pay "unemployment" while you are studying for certain programs but you should get information from emploi quebec or services canada
office jobs, but at home, would be perfect for you. i have health problems and the office is no but 40 hours a week at my home at my own pace, yessir yes thank you
good luck! i know it seems really impossible right now, but investing in yourself is the coolest idea. you will see, when you are done with this hell, if you invested in the right places you will be better after all that despite everything
look at the initial program with unemployment. after a process with a guidance counselor and an official you could be remunerated to make a dep! i don't know if the program is going to be renewed in 2022 but its worth watching!
are you bilingual try the desjardins customer contact centers. they now offer telework. they have great conditions.
marvellous. thank you!
also, they will not pay you for training for a job that is not in demand in your area.
wow, that's cool. do you like your job
thank you
stack i win
face you lose
they may well make the ballots in such a way that it is as idiot-proof as possible ... there is always a worse idiot! is it funny the same
the person voted stupidly, but still there was absolutely no doubt as to who that person was voting for. i find the judge's decision wrong.
i am okay. even though i'm racking my brains as to why the voter didn't vote * in * the white circle and instead chose to circle it (gray on black) instead ... but the person's intention is still clear.
what decision? the ballot that was rejected was accepted and that's what led to the tie.
an old trembling? the circle is not big for an old man who can see too well.
there, it is a question of the spirit of the law vs the law to the letter.
for me there is no "right" answer.
you're right, it's the text under the photo that confused me i think.
"judge christian boutin of the court of quebec rejected a ballot that awarded the victory to the mayor declared the winner on november 7, jean lapointe, against the outgoing mayor, jean-claude pouliot." on the image we see rather a vote for pouliot.
1. marde title
2. rotten link that does not lead to the comment that op wants us to see
3. subject that does not deserve a post. if you want to mess around, check out the mods.
it's because i'm checking your link on the computer because i don't know what i'm supposed to see.
guys, i think we found guy nantel's account.
i save this for sure. someone who pisses at the copypasta of navy seal who is as old as the world hahaha sick
what the fuck did you just fucking type about me, you little bitch? i’ll have you know i graduated top of my class at mit, and i’ve been involved in numerous secret raids with anonymous, and i have over 300 confirmed ddoses. i am trained in online trolling and i’m the top hacker in the entire world. you are nothing to me but just another virus host. i will wipe you the fuck out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on the internet, mark my fucking words. you think you can get away with typing that shit to me over the internet? think again, fucker. as we chat over irc i am tracing your ip with my damn bare hands so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. the storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your computer. you’re fucking dead, kid. i can be anywhere, anytime, and i can hack into your files in over seven hundred ways, and that’s just with my bare hands. not only am i extensively trained in hacking, but i have access to the entire arsenal of every piece of malware ever created and i will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the world wide web, you little shit. if only you could have known what unholy retribution your little “clever” comment was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking fingers. but you couldn’t, you didn’t, and now you’re paying the price, you goddamn idiot. i will shit code all over you and you will drown in it. you’re fucking dead, kiddo.
even on mobile ...
a threat is a threat by the content, the meaning, that it conveys.
whether or not the words chosen to convey it are original or not is irrelevant.
it's a copy pasta ...
crazy you made yourself woosh
the original
what the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? i’ll have you know i graduated top of my class in the navy seals, and i’ve been involved in numerous secret raids on al-quaeda, and i have over 300 confirmed kills. i am trained in gorilla warfare and i’m the top sniper in the entire us armed forces. you are nothing to me but just another target. i will wipe you the fuck out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this earth, mark my fucking words. you think you can get away with saying that shit to me over the internet? think again, fucker. as we speak i am contacting my secret network of spies across the usa and your ip is being traced right now so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. the storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your life. you’re fucking dead, kid. i can be anywhere, anytime, and i can kill you in over seven hundred ways, and that’s just with my bare hands. not only am i extensively trained in unarmed combat, but i have access to the entire arsenal of the united states marine corps and i will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. if only you could have known what unholy retribution your little “clever” comment was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking tongue. but you couldn’t, you didn’t, and now you’re paying the price, you goddamn idiot. i will shit fury all over you and you will drown in it. you’re fucking dead, kiddo.
for real?
lmao is pasta ca
lol i just saw in the other post, he really went crazy!
guy nantel get out of this body!
a threat of what? to make you do a wedgie?
there is still a difference to be made between "a minimally credible threat" and "look mom i copied the text again, we will see if someone is cave enough to poke"
also screenshot and police complaint :(
epic
it is a copy paste of the threat which was made to me in the link leave in op.
he copied the original copypasta in the thread (his comment at -10)
lol
even for games created in quebec for large foreign studios, it is often french dubbing actors who are hired.
from what i know, there is only ubisoft (french company) which does collaborations between quebec and france for dubbing, in particular for assassin's creed.
for example, ezio auditore da firenze is voiced by gilbert lachance (voice of jack sparrow in pirates of the caribbean, or the joker in le chevalier noir), rodrigo borgia is voiced in both french and english by manuel tadros (father of xavier dolan).
the same goes for far cry 3, with vaas who is voiced in both languages by actor michael mando.
i still play my games in original version, but i must admit that the assassin creed version was excellent.
i know guy nadon is in ac unity. i can't remember the character's name, but he's one of the assassins' leaders.
thanks a lot for the clarifications. in fact i was also asking the question because i saw french people saying that they did not recognize the dubbers: o that it was perhaps not dubbing in france (and exceptionally done in quebec). because in the trailers, it is not adrien antoine * (batman), donald reignoux * (nightwing) or philippe peythieu * (penguin) that we hear.
* french comedians who are the voices of these characters in batman arkham, injustice, lego dc super-villains and suicide squad kill the justice league.
besides manuel tadros is also the voice of rodrigo borgia in english ...
for ubisoft's games one could almost argue that the original version is the french version.
yes, mirabeau, the mentor!
dubbing is also much more open and diversified at the level of actors in france in quebec (which is normal, we are 8 million people against 60 million at home!)
besides, it seems to me that gotham knights is a reboot of the video game universe of batman, and that there is therefore no link with the arkham series. that explains why they are not the usual actors.
this is what i wrote too :)
> there is therefore no link with the arkham series. that explains why they are not the usual actors.
it is quite possible yes. that said injustice, dc universe online, lego dc super-villains, and suicide squad kill the justice league are also not part of the arkham universe.
this is normal but it also means that we often hear the same voices. in the marvel films we end up with several characters who have the same voice ...
suicide squad is indeed the sequel to arkham knight on the other hand. even if it doesn't show because of the change in tone 😂
oops it's true, i forgot that. still, i find it silly ... rocksteady should have let suicide squad kill the justice league be autonomous / have its own universe. if batman is in it (he is, normally) we're all going to wonder if it's after arkham knight -and how he survived and what happened in between that time- or if it is before.
better yet, amanda waller doesn't have the same physique as in arkham and deadshot is black even though i think he was latino in arkham (no?)
after much research, it is jochen hägele (a french actor, not very active) the new voice actor of batman in this game wb montreal
as indicated on the packaging, they only wrap imported candy. you can surely find something equivalent.
i'm pretty sure they ship internationally!
sana joking i know that amazon canada sells it, if you are still in the country: 
but if you are out of the country you may have to opt for another local generic brand.
last option would be to ask a friend to ship you a box.
oh interesting. i'm going to start my internet journey lol
>
we actually bought from here before lol
i also checked on amazon, but didn't find much of a choice either. thanks anyway!
i wonder why we are still in a state of emergency when the hospitalizations are less than 250.
wonder when they are going to add the 3rd doses on this graph. because we are talking about + 6k ajd doses, so clearly there is the 3rd
another interesting fact, 12-17s are the most vaccinated 1 dose group (95%), but it looks like there is a gang in no rush to get their 2nd dose.
in a little over a month and a few days we will be in 2022. and again in a health emergency. i don't know if i should laugh about it or cry about it.
517 cases last week
can the vaccinated stop spreading covid. unvaccinated want to go to restaurants.
cover the fact that thousands of people in the first wave actually died from the understaffing caused by the widespread panic.
this is to manage staff retention bonuses. (free quote from the response of the pm himself given last week. no one flinched).
it must be said that since then, we have learned that the protection was higher when we discard the two doses of several months rather than several weeks, so it is perhaps right that there are some who wait before the 2nd dose for don't need a 3rd
especially since the table always indicates 100% of the population including 0-> 2 vaccines, knowing all the same a good number of people with 3 doses, their figure is where?
mard government chalice
we don't talk about them because the media love them. an ultra anxious person will consume a lot of media than a reassured person.
roxane borgès da silva
it's not just the anti vaxx guys who can be crazy.
the post of the person who had real medical reasons not to get the vaccine and the comments she received about it was a good example.
the world that calls anti vaxx all kinds of insults really does nothing but let off steam on easy and "justifiable" targets. laughing at what they say is one thing, but calling them mentally retarded is just abuse and arrogance.
at worst, what i treat some of the anti-vaxx / conspis is that there are some who are opportunists (the "gurus") and some of the crosseurs who push the sauce that other conspis want to hear to get out of it. financial or political benefits.
those who truly believe do not deserve hatred, but rather patience and respect.
the nuance does not pay off. the problem is, there is a big economic incentive for the media to exaggerate the facts and interpret them in such a way as to create controversy. those who don't do this tend to disappear so almost all that's left today is draining.
conspiracy commentators and ultra-alarmists feed off each other. the existence of one depends on the other.
richard martineau and mbc would not have much to say if the "woke" jerks did not exist.
i've never read an article by jf cliche that i didn't like and that's not going to change. thanks for sharing.
the problem is that we present the "alarmists" as the opposite camp of the "conspiracy", as if we could put the two on an equal footing.
but there is still a major difference: one can be both alarmist and follow science 100% (ie see the glass half empty rather than half full), while by definition, a conspiracy rejects the consensus. scientist.
so to answer his question: "why have these people gone under the media radar?" quite simply because it is not a subject; there are people zealous for anything. if the conspirators are a subject of interest, it is because their beliefs have a deleterious effect on society (refusal of the vaccine, sharing of fake news, etc.). otherwise, people who insult themselves on the internet, there are in all camps, that we all already know.
exact. 
in addition, these hardliners, as i have called them for a while now, are super useful to the authorities because the position of the former helps the authorities as much to publicly justify their drastic measures ("well, people want to be protected and we understand them. we act! ") than appearing" moderate "(" i know that there are people who would like us to go even further but we will be measured and gradual in our approach ").
in short, politics. as always: d
the earth-platers and die-hards are useful idiots of both the media and the rulers. and that too..it's not something new.
the media shines its light on something ultra precise / anecdotal and mounts the storm in a glass of water (oh yessss the sale of copies / click bait).
ginette (affiliated with the die-hard club on the subject in question) is on tv (bonus point if she's "a mother of a family") to ask that we do something, god damn it can't stay the same! !
the government, questioned on the question, does not want to look fat jean therefore legislates on the said anecdotal case which everyone until now has completely opposed.
rinse and repeat.
hey! are you laughing at me?
i have never seen, in any media, the promotion of an "ultra-alarmist", as described in the article (who insults, etc.). can you give examples?
if you say his name five times late at night in front of a mirror, you have to confine yourself for three months.
can you give an example where roxane borgès da silva lacked good manners, where you just didn't read the article?
drain, nothing less?
just one observation that contradicts what you are putting forward: mathieu bock-côté's position on the pandemic has been qualified from the start: measures ok, the vaccine ok; governments which by incompetence or excess of zeal manage the pandemic with containment and extreme measures: no.
unless you just read his woke reviews, you won't know.
which illustrates the problem in general: if you just read the controversial or a little sensationalist articles, well ... you will definitely stick to the idea that the media are in the controversy and are sensationalist.
> however, there is still a major difference: one can be both alarmist and follow the science 100% (i.e. see the glass half empty rather than half full), while by definition, a conspirator rejects the scientific consensus.
many who are called "conspiratorial" do not reject science in any way. and many people speak of a scientific "consensus" when it does not exist, many public health experts are very critical of the containment measures (which, it must be remembered, were explicitly excluded in the preparedness plans. pandemic before 2020, so not so long ago the "consensus" was against containment against masks to counter respiratory viruses and it was not without data).
no, alarmists often dismiss scientific data as to the low level of danger of covid for children, for no reason.
by the way, there is some evidence that alarmist speeches are maintained, among other things, by bots on twitter and on other social media, paid in particular by the chinese communist party. for example, the announcement of the release of containment, especially in the united kingdom, leads to dozens of twitter accounts relaying the same personal testimony to denounce the decision. [the new york times notably reported on chinese bot activity aimed at praising china's response to covid] ( . [the fbi director also admitted that chinese diplomats have approached elected officials and senior us officials at federal, state and local levels to encourage them to endorse china's approach to containment.] ( / status / 1455565642799587329)
> so to answer his question: "why have these people gone under the radar of the media?"
they have not gone under the radar ... it is that the alarmists are very well represented in the media, and therefore they are not going to spank on their boyfriends and their allies. patrick lagacé, denise bombardier, david lussier, alain vadeboncoeur, roxanne borgès da silva ... these are alarmists who lead widely in the media. they react in exactly the same way that cliche describes the ultra-alarmists behaving, they scare the public, shut up the good news, and insult and attempt to censor anyone who tries to have the least bit more peaceful speech.
alarmist discourse is therefore normalized by the media and by influential individuals within them.
the government actively cultivates cynicism that's pretty impressive.
the quebec people can declare themselves secular as long as they want; they will remain hooked on their institutions in the same way, religious or state.
patrick lagacé. the guy insults everyone who thinks differently and uses his position of influence in la presse and the media sphere to ostracize anyone who has a peaceful speech about covid.
did you read my comment correctly? i said they weren't talking about it, i can't give you examples lol
ok i laughed out loud at this one
you make me cry with laughter, or else laugh with tears, i'm not sure! 🥲
she encourages ultra-alarmist thinking by never being happy and always saying that the measures are not restrictive enough.
it's not that she herself lacks knowing how to live. it is that her outrageous quotes in the media lead people to lack good manners because she has a certain notoriety and credibility so the ultra anxious use it to justify themselves.
she is the poster girl of the ultra alarmists.
> many of those who are called "conspiratorial" do not reject science in any way.
well at this point, they are not, by definition, conspiracyists.
conspiracyists have delusional beliefs that are deleterious to society. the supposed "alarmists" are a bit overzealous, with an insult on twitter every now and then. there is * no * common measure.
i will always remember coming to montreal in my teenage years to show my sincere love for quebec in 1995.
i came from northern ontario and i am a proud franco ontarian who was really filled with fear of losing quebec. i loved my experience so much that 5 years later i moved to montreal and have been there for 20 years now!
also, i find that there is nothing more cliché than putting all the rest of canada in a basket called roc.
<3
it's funny because it's true
the "true patriot canadians" will know all about it
uh for me the roc is an organized restitution of knowledge ... that is to say?
told me as the other said, and i know that i will not be popular, "we can all agree, the past is over", let's move on to another call!
québec be like: "the rest of canada hates us."
the rest of canada: "i don't think about québec at all."
get out of your province a bit, and you will see that it is quite wrong ...
> all the ** rest of canada ** in a basket name ** roc **.
roc just means rest of canada ....
haha but no kidding, it's just a generality and humor, i know there are good and sincere people in the roc. thank you for your comment! <3
imagine, you could live in a country that looks good now.
<3
who paid for your trip?
i'm studying the french language at college now, but i'm not sure how to express myself.
were it not for the language barrier, most canadians would prefer living in quebec. 
local business and local culture are considered extra special in every other province, and quebec leads the country in number of unique or local businesses and fantastic culture. 
when i can comfortably figure out verb conjugation, the difference between connaitre  and savoir, and how to type letter accents without alt codes i'll be good to go!
yes, but as you say, you are franco-ontarian, it's not the same as english speakers ...
from sudbury?
peace ✌
rest of canada
y'a aussi dit : “the problem with the french is that they don't have a word for entrepreneur.”  
fak yeah, i'd rather not listen to him.
are you new to the internets?
i feel you!
montrealers experience the same thing with the village of quebec.
i have been working in the west every summer for 4 years.
i live in a group with lots of canadians who come from all over for 70 ~ days.
canadians in general don't hate us. (20-35 year olds)
except that they have ideas about us that are completely outdated. like we're religious, or a little more racist on average.
know absolutely nothing about our culture except 2-3 musical artists.
equalization. ect.
it thinks that hydroquebec is stealing land from the amerindians.
like the "i'm not racist, but ..." mentality
ignorance and infantilization (stun word) rather than hatred.
keep in mind also that in a camp of 80 people there will be at least 15 quebecers. so it's not like there's zero exposure.
the exceptions will be those who are doing french immersion or have come here. but even then "come here" often means going to montreal for 2-3 days once. or in quebec for a day.
ontarians tend to know more but often it is rather the negative.
the business of what it is we are rude pcq yon not been able to do this served in english when they are arrested putting gas in st-kekchose come back often.
the farther west you go, the less we think about us. what in fact is logical and totally acceptable in my opinion.
it's just weird when you talk to a 26 year old super anti pipeline dude from victoria who didn't know that quebec pissed off the solid oil companies with their pipeline.
but the guy from alberta, pro oil, knows it ... it's the same dude who talks to you about equalization too.
basically it's not that bad. the general mood is a big condescending "meh". but hey, my sample size isn't double blind either.
everyone is on our $ 7 daycare service though. when they know him.
indeed, many have never left their province and they only repeat the prejudices and lies that are conveyed in the english-speaking media about quebec and quebecers. this is one of the things you notice when you visit the roc.
damn, it's young to retire. i now understand why the restaurants are lacking!
she had a great sports career.
:thumbsup.
dad?
i liked your joke
yes definitely that olympic athletes are good-for-nothing lazy ....
i can't believe how ignorant whineers the world is.
listen, son, i'd be a bad father's crawl if anything that sank an anchor wasn't a springboard for some dubious mooring game. on the port side, that's vaguely how i seduced your sea.
you a joke
it was a joke about how the title is worded ("retire" instead of "change jobs" or "quit swimming")
gran languages?
it was more of a joke on "plongeuse" in reference to the job which consists of washing dishes in a restaurant. there have been a couple of woosh here!
ah yes, i understood it just halfway!
appointment made for tomorrow evening for my youngest !!!!
i had sunday for my two daughters, the dates go quickly
thank you for the heads up, see you on saturday.
us thursday! ben happy to have such a close time slot.
for the next day! quite fantastic.
my kid is 4 years old, so we can't wait for the vaccine to be accepted for his age group!
i have too much karma, i will ask the question: why impatiently?
quick, myocarditis!
in my case, there are a lot more cases in elementary school than last year, so i want to reduce the risk of them catching it. and if they ever do catch it, it will reduce their symptoms and their risk of having long-term covid. it also reduces the risk of them passing covid on to their grandparents.
so that it is protected, quite simply, against the risks of related inflammatory diseases or long covid.
i would be surprised if the vaccine was installed in 0-4 year olds
vitte, a mayoocarditee !! (with a finger in the nose)
no cases of myocarditis in this age group after more than 3m injections, research shows
are you aware that you are more likely to have myocarditis after having covid than after having had the vaccine?
children have a risk close to nothing, please cross-check your sources before taking the plunge, this injection will not be trivial. you know, the doctors you see at tva have conflicts of interest, they are paid to encourage the population to be vaccinated. many medical colleagues deplore it but do not yet dare to speak about it. if you really want your children to take this injection, wait at least 2 to 5 years until the pharmacovigilance data is complete.
the results are expected soon (late 2021-early 2022. for 2-5 years and studies continue 6 months-24 months. it is not us who will decide, but the scientists whose job it is.
it smells of clay around here!
no he's not conscious
we are in 2021, that's who the taouins who still listen to tva to get a head on what's going on in the world.
the vast majority of air quebec editors no longer get information from television news as their main source
and why they would, it's an outdated model, like print newspapers.
do your research.
because those who shout lache tva are often the ones who give them the most attention
it's not in 2-5 years that it's important, it's now!
there cannot be long-term side effects from a vaccine, as the vaccine disappears completely from the body after a few days. the vast majority of side effects appear within the first 12 hours.
my other two children have been vaccinated since july, and they are doing very well. i have an asthmatic son so for me it is very important and the pros are far superior to the cons.
you are so fat with your "stop listening to vat". criss you talk to people on reddit, do you really think their only source of info is fucking tva ??
"it's hosti de marde so we're going to vote for" is a take ...
does the block still exist?
didn't you follow the elections? they've been growing for 3 in a row
in 2015 they had fewer raw votes than in 2011 despite an increase in the turnout, but more seats due to the division of the vote between the ndp and the libs.
they had a comeback in 2019 but the plc remains first in popular vote and seats in quebec. the same for 2021. if it had not been for the effects of gowns around the debate in english, they would have done similar to 2015.
to say that they have been on the rise since 2015 is to say a bit of nonsense.
it is so useless that i forget it exists!
in the last 6 years, what have the other opposition parties been used for more than the bloc?
the other opposition parties had some hope of finishing 1st.
the block is the echo of a bygone era, the residue of the boomers.
let's not forget his goal was to stay in ottawa for one or two cycles of max elections.
so you argue that there should only be the two biggest parties, plc and ccp forever? they are the most fortunate after all.
same thing at the provincial level: no chance for any other party to win the election next year, so let's cancel this futile election?
it's not bad silly that. the goal of a political party is not to go through "one or two election cycles", it is to accomplish something. the bloc's goal has not been accomplished and will not be accomplished until independence or a satisfactory constitutional renegotiation takes place.
the boomers have a very broad back considering that the bloc is still alive, to your great misfortune of course.
ndp you forgot it?
they made themselves close
it was not me who said that
it's the bloc
so the block will never part with her failed dream
the block does nothing to me, and the block does nothing
close to what?
they got 7 seats less than the bloc.
> they are returned pockets
here, i arranged it for you.
the bloc elects members of parliament and defends quebec in the house of commons. you can say whatever you want, but they participate in the democratic exercise, despite your complaints.
close to winning with jack layton
ouep there they are pockets
tabarnak that you live in the past, there have been 3 elections since ... the ndp has just been losing feathers since then.
this post has not already been done recently? 
we had this discussion not even two weeks ...
francois perusse
there is ** nobody ** who makes me laugh as much as eric duhaime. he's a king.
i don't find sugar sammy particularly funny, however the reaction of some to his jokes makes me absolutely cramped.
i love françois bellefeuille and simon leblanc. the latter deserves to be better known ... this guy makes me cramp every time.
i really like the comedian who always talks about his genitals and his weight who really has a lot of gotcha lines made on his multiple dates, i don't remember his name.
yvon deschamps. marc favreau. the cynics. as much humorists as critics of society.
i like practically that the "relief":
mariana mazza
sam breton
francois bellefeuille
benoit charette is no worse but you have to like absurd humor.
i love john mulaney but my top is probably george carlin
the late pierre légaré.
olivier martineau
one of the best comedy shows i've seen in my life. but i haven't seen that much.
the reaction of the room when they laugh at all races. the world is all cramped in two. it laughs to tears. and there bang he begins the racist jokes about quebecers. oh bo-boy. it laughs less, it laughs yellow. worse, i piss myself on myself because i can feel the discomfort in the room. it's even funnier.
"what's going on? do you think racist jokes are funny, but not when you're talking about you?"
do you know any who have not passed the age of the coffin or the cshld?
rbo, the powder blues? they were funny too, but already a little less acerbic towards the faults of our society. now, there are plenty that will make me laugh if i run into it, but not really that will make me think at the same time. do you have any suggestions?
françois létourneau's tv series?
otherwise, i don't know anything as memorable as what was done before the internet or before _juste pour rire_. i meet a lot of talents, but you have to believe that i am less impressionable than i was ...
in the acerbic genre, there might be [unpied] ( but it's belgian. here, among our comedians with a social conscience, we have those who know how to punish their monologues. more than not, it results in regular guys and girls promoting their political leanings.
i would like to be able to find disengaged writers capable of taking us on a journey to the heart of human contradictions. yvons deschamps succeeded, i think, sol with and others also that i liked less.
gamekeeper.ca 
they have a store in ahuntsic and another in verdun. they have maps in french. and the service is super good.
his famous cards that everyone had but no one knew the rules of the game.
in the videotron usually there is a lot of choice 10 years ago my cards were sold in french.
if not you can get better deals in stores specializing in table games i imagine.
if you want a relatively big place that sells it, [imaginary has some] ( they have a bit of all languages, on their site you just have to look for what you want. otherwise their shops have specialized counters on this that can advise you.
toysr'us and walmard also have them, but there you will have 0 advice if you ever get lost.
otherwise the small neighborhood geek shops sometimes have small stocks. write "pokémon cards + name of your city / district" on google maps and you may get results.
but yes, it exists in french. they are just rare because of the pandemic and the people who buy them and sell them for more.
any “local game store” (lgs). a sports card store, magic and the like… except what your nephews cost a lot more than you think… if you ask the guy at the counter for pokemon cards, he'll tell you which ones. it goes up to over $ 1000 ...
in my time ™ ~ 2000, there were some in french.
if y want one / specific maps  or something like that it's going to be a good place to buy individually.
do they really want maps in french? (tokebekicitte)
for booster packs (packet of ~ 10-15 random cards). you can go and see: secret of the korrigans, jack of hearts, or all kinds of other local stores and encourage the economy here.
locals also sell individually, but won't necessarily get * exactly * what your nephews want.
how old are your nephews? 5-6 years old -> booster packs or cheap cards of their favorite pokemon, it's cool.
15+ -> y probably want something specific to put in their decks.
i bought mine at toy r us and it was in french.
i'm 90% sure they are only available in english
in truth the rules are complicated lol. almost at the level of magic.
indeed, they especially want boosters, they are 6-8 years old, so we are more in the quantity vs quality!
> catherine fournier succeeds sylvie parent, 59, who is the same age as her mother. the former mayor, who did not support her, does not maintain very good relations with her younger sister. catherine fournier recounts: i wrote to her: "i hope we will have the opportunity to talk to each other to make the transition". she never answered me. "
i will never understand that kind of attitude.
for those who might be interested, she was on sans filter podcast some time before the election was called, and she was explaining the reasons for her departure from the provincial scene in favor of the municipal.
> catherine fournier succeeds sylvie parent, 59, who is the same age as her mother. the former mayor, who did not support her, does not maintain very good relations with her younger sister. catherine fournier recounts: i wrote to her: "i hope we will have the opportunity to talk to each other to make the transition". she never answered me. "
it is the second female boomer who spits on the success of catherine. we remember martyne prévost of the caq who did not have much class after her defeat at longueuil in 2018, who dropped the following pearl "people think that because she shows her pretty face everywhere, she helps the constituency, but it is archival ".
i also remember julie boulet who had insulted sonia lebel after her defeat, attacking her on her character more than on her policies (woman not known and not sympathetic at all she had said).
as much as women have it less easy in politics than men, i think other women do not help much in the situation.
it really is a big ego problem.
catherine literally destroyed sylvie parent's party. action longueuil is dead is buried.
in addition, catherine is very young and represents a major change in municipal politics. sylvie is simply unable to accept this.
putting are ego in front of the post. it happens very often.
> we remember martyne prévost of the caq who did not have much class after her defeat at longueuil in 2018
or even sophie stanké, another candidate in marie-victorin's nomination for the parti québécois, who had lost the race by throwing crap and criticizing her, while they are in the same party.
the reign of sylvie parent was unfortunately quite pocket-sized. she blamed the opposition for her failures, but frankly she was never unifier and this reaction shows the smallness of the politician in her.
i have no recollection of this and my google-fu released nothing on the subject. do you have a source?
after having cashed close to a million dollars in 4 years, she just died of laughter and will go to place herself on any ca of construction companies that she has helped with her decisions as mayor ...
normal that your google-fu finds nothing. there had been no article on it.
i was there and she was angry that she didn't win, as if she 'deserved' to win the nomination and catherine was a traitor.
also, the just before the vote, she was going to see the voters on the spot to talkshit catherine, while the race was pretty much over.
sophie stanké also created a significant debt in laporte's executive to the pq in the 2012 election, when her chances of winning were slim.
i am glad that she is no longer politically active.
politics disproportionately attract big egos, so it's okay for egos to be disproportionately bruised.
> regarding the vaccination of children aged 5 to 11, premier legault reminds us that this is a “personal choice”. "we must not put pressure on the parents or the children," said mr. legault.
is that good in tabarnak. he who said last week wanting to lift the state of emergency when x% of young people will be vaccinated while we are blasting advertisements to encourage our loved ones to be vaccinated them and their children.
i would really like the number of the dealer in legault, there seems to be a lot of noise. probably as strong as those who still believe this nonsense consume.
i think it's time to lift the state of emergency. the only remaining variable is childhood immunization, and if legault says there is no% target, then the state of emergency can be lifted. the other option is to lie on the target%. but tsé legault never lies there
the question period should be interesting.
the worst is this narcissist there will easily win the elections .... ihhh tbnk
i found that he managed the situation well at the beginning, he took as we say the bull by the horns, did this kind of manipulation but it was okay i told myself that the situation being new so the population had to also adapt at the same time and that it was not easy for a prime minister to have to do the dirty work. but at this stage, even if the aim of the vaccination is legitimate, i find that he has become rude, a liar and a manipulator. he literally takes us for idiots. give the real goals and figures, assume yourself as a leader. his style is now comparable to any other manipulative double-face that ruled us before.
2nd dose in february + 14 days of waiting, they really don't want families to go outside the country for spring break ....
edith: why downvotes are just math, right?
when there is not the 80% that he wants, he will start to '' shamer '' the parents who refuse to have their children vaccinated.
always the same story with this old debris there.
c not complicate ..
it starts with it's your choice -> people say to themselves .. well it's not mandatory so it's not a cross to make money to pfizer so i go-> 80% vaccinated between 5- 11 years old -> the cases go back a second time as in europe -> we blame the 20% of kids -> obligatory -> we use people who do not take the joke at the start to shamer people who do not want by treating them as anti-vax and anti-science for not wanting to inject a single vaccine to their child, which protects them 0 because they have 0 risk on paper.
> we must not put pressure
unbelievable.
> i would really like the number of the dealer in legault, there seems to be a lot of noise.
they did some polls and saw that it's a bad move to force that. the benefit is not so clear, and if it turns out badly they'll be to blame. legault is a fine politician who will keep power for a long time.
it will probably be full of unrelated questions (for now) on chslds.
8 weeks, it falls at the end of january for those who are vaccinated this week. we're going to be okay for spring break. and i guess i'll have my booster by then too (healthcare worker).
my whole family will now be vaccinated, so it's not true that i will still be preventing myself from living after 2 years of having very wisely made the necessary sacrifices. by respecting the basic rules, we can still do good business!
i too would like not too many people to go outside for spring break.
yeah when he's going to have 60-70% he will start to say that he is very happy with the choice of quebecers and 30 seconds later he will start to point the finger at others and to dangle a "return to normal". 2 weeks later he will come out to talk to us about the third dose and the renewal of the passport. and while everyone is tearing up the third and the passport, everyone is going to sweep the children's story under the rug.
they are starting to be lapped there.
> it is not true that i will still prevent myself from living after 2 years of having very wisely made the necessary sacrifices.
lol
the 200 r / quebec 'rs who post this at each new legault challenge.
"lala is the last time that i have suffered a restriction or an obligation"
and we repeat until the next one.
yeah everything is normal *!
^^^^^^^^^^^^ * des ^^^^^^^^^^^^ conditions ^^^^^^^^^^^^ apply
he said the 2nd dose vaccination wouldn't be until february, i believe? rather, it is the zealous customs that could refuse you your children even with 1 day less than the 14 days post-dose.
you will have to be really vigilant and make sure you take the 1st box available at both doses, for multiple children too if you have any! it's a lot of variables, and the boxes are already closing quickly ...
2 years brothel. 2 years. come back in cibole.
my daughter will have her first dose tomorrow. i should have the appointment for the second dose right away so i will come back to it.
children who get vaccinated at school will be fine before next week, so it makes sense that the second dose is in february, since we will be in december. my oldest, it took 3 weeks between the announcement of the vaccination and the day their school was going. i did not wait, i went there the same week.
ironic.
['' clearly, the government wants to hide things from us. [...] how many posts from @thomasgerbet will it take for us to finally know exactly what to expect and know the truth? '' - @domanglade. ] (
[pq leader paul st-pierre plamondon accuses the quebec government of having "lied" to the coroner about deaths in chslds and of having "destroyed evidence". “we are faced with extremely serious and disturbing actions,” he says.] (
some on this sub have been saying it for a year and a half: covid deaths in chslds were counted in the same group as people who died being abandoned to their fate without water, food and care, because the staff fled during the first wave.
the caq will put this to the ground quite quickly. jdm and la presse have surely already had a press release on this.
sous-vide cooking: very low temperature (55-70 ° c) and long cooking time.
rapid cooling to increase food preservation.
seared beforehand or at the exit of the bag to give a good taste.
vacuum cooking according to 44th street:
crunch the ti storage bag in boiling water, 12-14 min, pi aaah ouiiii ... make sure your reheated roast is at 74 ° c. a question that is brown from edge to edge, a little hard to eat.
the company laughs at a pretentious foodie who tries to impress his family but push the joke to make them say anything? it's funny but it's dog!
i used to work in gas stations and there is nothing less "fun" to have a guy who just bought cheap vodka, every hour, more and more drunk until 11pm.
i wouldn't imagine if it was 24 hours a day.
if you have ever lived near a bar you have surely noticed how people who go out after having consumed speak in low voices, are respectful of the neighborhood, do not stay in front of the bar and how the doorman never has to intervene / s
i think that the basis of this law aims to prevent this kind of situation from being transposed to certain deps.
to do less competition at the bars.
it was old laws from that time that the church had a say in when you could buy alcohol. it was a bit like anti-vice laws. you couldn't buy it on sunday either. i think it's even staying like that for a long time in ontario. in these virtuous laws there was also that one cannot drink in public. law that has been changed by covid. we are allowed to drink in some parks while eating now. they were afraid that the social fabric would crumble and that society would be on fire like when orchestral tobacco was legalized. / s
it is to make sure that you know what you are doing. a guy who comes in to buy alcohol at 4 a.m. may be in a state of crisis. if you can get to the depot before 11pm, it gives the impression that you know what you're doing, that you're organized. (my guess)
there are no advantages. it's not a case that dates from the 1920s and prohibition that? i believe it's to limit access to the drink, and that's it.
if the bars close at 3 o'clock, it should be the same for the sale of alcohol.
we no longer penalize (in a way) people who work nights or anyone else who does not work from 7 to 4 from monday to friday
the stuckup uncle politicians are happy.
it surely avoided him a lot of bad decisions in the world 😅
in quebec you have more liberalized rules than here in ontario. the lcbo closes at 10 p.m. which is boring.
at home in alberta you can buy alcohol until 2 a.m. as if you were in a brewery, and there are more vendors than in ontario.
alcoholic trying to recover here. i always buy my alcohol the same evening and it helps me a lot to finish work, go to a friend or my sister, stay until 11pm and return home without the possibility of buying any. but i'm just a case and i'm not sure the law is made for that reason, or that it helps many others.
it is a regulation that exists in several countries and several states. so it's not just a trick to make the world of quebec sweat.
i haven't been able to find the real why but people seem to say it's to avoid seeing people drunk on public roads in the wee hours of the morning.
personally, i do not see the difference between a convenience store and a bar for this kind of result.
i don't see that as an advantage, but hey, i rarely buy alcohol after that hour.
because you're just a kid and you need the state to tell you how to be a responsible citizen.
i've always heard it said that drunk drivers get drunk in the morning when the kids go to school.
it must reduce the chances of bad decisions
listen in a small village, when you leave your house, the faces of the people you meet are always pretty much the same. in the big city, every time you go out, new faces are there all the time.
this kind of law is practically made for large cities where you never run out of groups of individuals ready to party anywhere, anytime. they are mainly voted to help police forces spend their time on crime, not population control. it would be a lot crazier in montreal if we didn't have these limits in my humble opinion as a citizen.
in short, it is to minimize abuse. that's all.
to prevent the quirks from resuming their tanks after finishing their crate at all hours of the night
in my opinion the sale of alcohol should also start at least at noon, not too bright to make them wait the same time as the children go to school to go and buy their 12 pabst.
i work in an ultramar and the number of clients i see arriving, buying a beer, leaving in their tank, opening their beer and leaving drinking is pretty crazy. so good ...
there is no answer "yes and i already wear one"?
under construction, it takes a steel cape
if it is a really warm cape that can act as a blanket and it becomes socially acceptable to bring your blanket into the metro, join the movement
edna mode dit ["no cape!"](
we don't care about fashion, why refrain from wearing what we love in the name of social acceptance?
it's dangerous on a bike: [ 4.3(
not with the winds and the temperature in quebec, no. coats with hoods from lord of the rings instead of kenny / south park ones on the other hand… (drool)
fuck fashion in general. so wear what you want.
there are two kinds of people in the world. boring people who will say no milky and people who take it with a touch of humor and say they will wear it proudly!
[the target audience for wearing the cloak] (
i am literally edna mode
if it makes it invisible, okay. otherwise, it doesn't interest me more than that.
only if the capes have a big doctor strange collar.
good thing i know someone who makes capes his specialty. most of the world who order it from him is to put into everyday life. she regularly posts tips on the theme of "bringing the cape up to date".
well are you she op? : p
when's the last time it was in fashion
there are designers who try their hand at cape concepts every year.
it doesn't hurt because it's a silly idea.
lol
it gets dirty so quickly in the slush. a bit like the fashion for hyper elephant pants in the 90s.
yes, but i don't know if i would be cape-able to wear one. must say that fashion and accessories, i find it too cape-italian.
with the top hat and the cane!
find a garage and have your car repainted
i've never heard it said that you have to turn on your emergency lights. already, you slow down, and yes you find a safe place to stop ... but without fooling, however.
you don't have to start failing because of the cowboys on the other side of the border either ...
throw a banana peel or something and weigh in on the gas! let the footsteps catch you!
you stick to the edge as fast as you can, and if it doesn't suit the police, they'll tell you what to do / where to go
stop, but keep eyeing the cop in the eyes the whole way through, to establish your dominance. if necessary, pee on it.
it has already happened to me on a bridge (15 south before salaberry) and i was in the left lane. i moved to the right with my turn signals on and took the exit. i pulled into the first street on the right on the side and the policeman told me it was good to find a safe place for everyone.
i think it's a matter of judgment. i wouldn't have stopped on the left on a bridge in a curve, but i wasn't too foolish to stop either.
signal and slow down near the roadside. police do not pit maoeuver in traffic. if it is the rcmp by memory they forbid their police officer to engage in high speed pursuits.
a quebec policeman would never make such a stupidly dangerous move. you're gonna get tickets for the worst silliness but they're not trying to kill you for fun like in the us.
> turn on your emergency lights, slow down and find a safe place to stop?
this is exactly what needs to be done.
don't draw conclusions from the harper incident because it doesn't include all of the other times people took the time to find a safe place to stop and save themselves from a fatal accident. you draw conclusions based on too little data.
the pit maneuver was clearly not justified but the lady should have stopped right away because the shoulder lane was wide enough.
have already been flashed on de la verendry in mtl, boulevard 50 km / h with three lanes. i had continued perhaps 200m to go on a small perpendicular street (i was coming back from cegep and there was still traffic on the vérendry and no shoulders). even though it took a whopping 30 seconds from the moment he turned on the lights to the moment i pulled over, the policeman told me i had to stop immediately because it made him think i was taking that time to stop. hide something in my car ... so i suggest you stop as soon as possible even if it's not safe. it's very stupid and i'm against it but with my past experience, i think it's best not to look "suspicious".
my friend who was driving while i was a passenger was stopped by the police for speed and i took the opportunity to ask the officer.
he explained that your eyes have to scan your mirrors every 8 sec, so they expect you to see them fairly quickly and stop right away. however, you have the right to stop in a safe place.
are you sure you have taken your driving lessons .....
usually when there's one telling me to stop, i turn my right wrist and can't see him again.
come on u / edgarallanpow, it's your cousin! wanna go bowling?
yeah but it takes $ 100
i know that in some countries in europe (the kind of country with lots of bends and curves) the emergency lights sound to signal to emergency vehicles that they've seen them but can't let them pass. because of the road.
if i remember it is from a paramedic youtube channel on the road.
[> across the border] (
a much more efficient green koopa shell.
dude, why do you think the police lights are blue and red? it is the color of the shells that they have permanently.
this grandma is wrong. we had a history and a culture long before him and had it despite all the nonsense he could have said on the subject.
lord durham gave us nothing, certainly not a history and a culture!
what a bunch of crap.
he would have needed a screeching a volley
there's a face to spank in him
denies our history and culture.
canadian parliament recognizes our history and culture.
i second firmly
let's say he added a lot of history with his actions :)
a real hard ham, this guy.
like what?
the author be like: "gnd and trudeau both love oxygen, so gnd is a mascot of the liberals"
it's really funny this text there. he notes that things are going badly in quebec before asserting that we must be afraid of the only party that has ever taken power.
so if i understand correctly, the fact that things are going badly is correct and you have to worry about the hypothetical "things are going badly" of a party which is struggling to elect more than ten deputies?
it's really strange. seems to me that if you think things are going so badly, your questioning should be around the other parties that have been exchanging power for all that time.
ahhh good quality journalism from jdem. the article doesn't even have a point, objective, journalistic value, it's just a rant of my uncle who finds that no one is doing their job well enough
> must have enchanted justin trudeau.
sacrament he jumps the rooster and the donkey has morning him. there's still a difference between 'enchanting justin trudeau' because you have the same ideas and being his ally.
it's special to hear a columnist accuse a leftist sovereignist party of being an ally of a liberal.
maybe not a mascot, but most definitely useful idiots ...
opinion section. the author is a former trade union leader who has his regular column in the journal. no journalism here, and it's very well signposted
that's really slim ... there is hardly an effort to back the title with any reasoning: qs = multiculturalism = plc: justin happy ... what?
the rest is just a series of insipid banalities. who is the publisher who read this and thought it passed the bar to be printed?
even the martineaus and facals of this world are at least capable of finding a subject and following a certain narrative on it from start to finish.
a “sovereignty” very absent on the part of qs. you only have to take a look at what comes out of their convention to see that it is far from being a priority, and is almost a facade.
on many policies, such as multiculturalism or indigenousism, qs and the plc are often overbid.
> a left-wing sovereignist party
lol.
qs is as much a sovereignist as the nationalsozialistische deutsche arbeiterpartei was socialist (and pro-workers). it's just to hook the sovereignist and socialist voters.
qs has within it a very powerful federalist wing which completely denies the quebec nation and actively works for its assimilation.
usually an opinion is filled with facts, sources, puts together a new argument to present an original point of view in the face of a debate.
just because your article is opinionated doesn't mean you can shit about the concept of journalistic rigor, it just means that the author is taking an edge in the debate.
you can see here a list of tips for writing an opinion piece, the jdem would benefit from listening to them as little as possible
oof i would not put my money on hammer with his style "1 line at a time" as if he were spamming a group convo without bothering to build his idea in 1 message
for real since the beginning of the pandemic it is toff. i must admit, i did not have it easy. but seriously thank you my boyfriend, its been a long time i had not laughed even one morning while reading posts on the internet.
columnists are not bound by journalistic rigor. on the contrary, it is not a question of reporting facts, but of interpreting them according to the biases that these chroniclers have. you may disagree and especially point out flaws in their reasoning, either. but, it has nothing to do with the journalist's work
yeah, maybe i was generous with martineau.
as if his writing style is suited to people who hate to read what.
columnists are in fact not bound by journalistic rigor, and that is why jdem is a rag.
for fun, i went to see the opinion section of the assignment and opened the first column on the list, nice coincidence that it talks about qs.
we see a nuanced opinion, which is based on facts, on history, and which builds a logical argument that opens the discussion / debate.
that's it, a real opinion piece, not a glorified facebook post
joseph, i'm inventing a black friend facal, it's not peru either ...
i wouldn't be surprised if it was an actuarial, fight club style calculation: it must be optimized to protect the most at risk without costing too much.
it’s free if you’re over the age of 60, to be precise. though your question still remains intact. i’m curious to see the other replies.
partial answer:
"the program aims to reduce hospitalizations and mortality in people who are most at risk. the aim is not to prevent all cases of flu."
everyon can get it for free, just say you live with someone in the target groups.  nobody checks or cares.
i have been receiving it for free for two years for technicalities (i am 25 years old, no conditions at risk).
quebec is lagging behind on this, honestly. in my opinion, it's just to save money.
because it's the most cost effective and sensible approach to offer vaccination to those at risk and let everyone else the fuck alone.
we don't actually have a healthcare system. we have a death prevention system. if you're about to carc it you'll get excellent care but preventative care is much more limited. 
regardless you can tell them you have asthma. impossible to verify and counts as one of the chronic conditions that are covered.
> actuarial calculation, fight club style
pragmatism?
also free for healthcare workers.
yup you can do that nobody will check.  if you really want to be by the book you can pay and get it in a pharmacy think it's like 20$
100% this. the same principle applied to covid 19. since everyone, young and old, are at risk of ending on respiratory assistance or developing debilitating long covid effect it's more cost effective to vaccinate everyone instead of letting a total collapse of society through inaction.
i have been operated on 6 times and in no case was it for anything serious so i would say it is wrong.
by default any "health system" is a "death prevention system" for the sake of simplicity and for good reason that everything has died, unilaterally, without faults, for 50 billion years. fak your zinger is a pretty wet firecracker.
as for our healthcare system, it's not perfect, but it helps the daily health of 8 million people 24/7/365. i never waited "long" for a public operation, some of them benign, others completely changed my life.
haha "death prevention system" is a good term
yep, paid 18,17$ a few hours ago
> now, who in quebec determines the criteria for medical necessity?
it's doc mailloux.
i imagine one or more probably several boxes in the organization chart of the mss
a billiard ball that you move around to predict the future.
thank you! i'm going to leaf through it all :)
!shake u/magic-8-bot
universities limit admissions there is not so much room for medical stafes.
it's the same thing for nurses training at school it's okay afterwards you have to go see real patients and there is a student limit that a teacher is able to safely hang out on a unit and well there is no millions of units either. don't send medical externs to acute care units like you want either. there is also the patient who may not want 10,000 students either. if a woman gives birth and there are 3 externs who will put their hands one after the other to learn how to assess the cervix. how many fingers are you willing to get in so that someone can learn how it feels?
french, belgian and english doctors must be allowed in. this is the only quick fix for getting more doctors. we can train more (we should!), but it takes 7 years.
i no longer read this stupid member of the far-right think tank that the mei has been for a long time
your connection was solid before and it suddenly crashed in 11 days or was it always a bit shaky?
edit: i just saw for the broken equipment ... they mean it's going to take a while or they'll never fix it? 🤨
i had all kinds of problems with bell. i have had cogeco for 1 year. 0 problem
if you're not a gamer, i'll check out starlink. still excellent performance.
edit: still $ 130 / month for 100, not so a good idea after all ...
cogeco? it's not bad the only other big player with its own internet network in quebec, it remains to be seen if it is available in your corner. i would prefer videotron or bell in terms of network since cogeco's is not on optical fiber, but between that or nothing it's just a little help while waiting for videotron to solve their problem.
try virgin. it's the bell network
i have switched to oxio since march and very satisfied. but hey, they use the videotron network. if the signal does not pass, it will not pass to any other provider using the same cable… there may still be savings to be made.
you can pm me for a referral code giving $ 30 credit.
goes with bell fiber optic. there is nothing better point barre.
my connection was ok before (i have helix 400) but has been dead for 11 days. i have little jolts in my life from time to time (very weak connection, say 30 mbps download and always 0 mbps upload).
for the breakage, i am told "from one day to another" every day since last monday.
the problem with that is that on a pole there can just be 2 kinds of wire going: copper / fiber optic wire (bell in the majority of quebec, telus more hollow in the region), and the cable (videotron , cogeco, rogers). i say "the" cable, because it cannot send just one that goes through a region. videotron has the majority of large cities and large centers in quebec, cogeco is mainly installed in the regions in quebec and ontario, and rogers is just in ontario.
so if you live in a region like montreal where videotron is the cable provider, tough shit, you are stuck with either bell or videotron, or a reseller who sells the bell or videotron signal for less. same thing in the region, if it's cogeco the cable, you just have the choice between them and bell, or the resellers.
roll on the crtc / dirty oligopoly
edith: i say that because op mentioned that he is with videotron, so it is not possible for him to have cogeco at home.
if cogeco is in your home, videotron will not be. and vice versa.
apart in remote villages, tlm is on optical fiber, even cogeco. it's just bell marketing.
hmmm .... of course, it doesn't look too good for one of the videotron resellers when the equipment is lacking, you risk having the same problems. i'm annoyed. sorry :(
their helix technology is dompe osti.
i also had issues a few weeks ago (not as bad as total internet loss) and they weren't sure what or when it would be fixed.
but hey, it's stable at home ... for the moment!
spam calls every day it is really extremely rare that a complete outage lasts this long. ask to speak to the superior of the dude who answers you first
this is true for the videotron wired internet network but not for helix. so that's why i asked op if cogeco is available in their area.
yeah, that's what i suspected. i had thought of going to bell (backwards), but the only packages available where i live are very low-end.
same. not as drastic as op but for maybe 3 months, everyday around 3:00 pm, the helix router would restart for no apparent reason. it always took about a minute before he left on his own and we regained access to the internet.
it disconnected me from my online games, it disconnected my girlfriend from her work at home. it’s stupid but fatal in the long run.
no videotron tech seemed to know why this was happening and none of their basic it suggestions (restart, reset, etc.) seemed to fix the problem.
then all of a sudden, for maybe a month now, it stopped happening. it makes no sense.
i wrote to the "complaints" department on the videotron site and i have someone calling me every day to follow up ("we are still working on this").
you're talking rubbish. cogéco and videotron are never in the same sector. there is still only one supplier of coax cable in the poles.
ok and did they tell you what exactly is the breakdown? does it affect who besides you?
can we really say that there was a real french presence in canada before 1608? there were explorers, yes, and even a few semi-permanent fishing stations, but to say that there was new france, i think that perhaps pushes the limits of the argument a little.
where are the vikings?
saskatchewan
if the purpose of the table is to show that the aboriginal peoples have been in canada for much much longer than the other peoples who came to settle in these lands, it is successful. but who did not know? i would have a lot to say about the baby blue bar which figures at 487 the number of years of francophone presence in canada ...
i would have liked to see a distinction between the amerindians and the inuit who arrived afterwards.
why does "uk colony" seem to start so late, like around 1790-1795? seems to me that the conquest was in 1759, right? was there another event later that marked the start of the british presence?
many canadians believe that 1867 is the declaration of independence.
this shows the progression of government/imperial control but not the presence of certain linguistic populations in the territories. that would be more interesting. this is cool too though! it shows how trivial colonial presence is in the scheme of history.
why laugh at saskatchewan? why can't they proclaim themselves a nation like sth does so well?
i read it as    france colony | uk colony | canada
it is like the land appeared with new france...
indeed! we can go to find port royal in 1605, the colony of île sainte-croix in 1604. a few tests here and there, the fishermen as well. difficult to draw a line of occupation of the territory, but the political one seems to start rather with acadia.
worse the fact that the "new france" ends super close to 1800 ... wasn't it 1763? the proportions are not very precise let's say ...
1534 is really incorrect as a date, but with 1608, at least we can say that it was the beginning of a permanent presence (but really weak anyway)
we can say 1599 with tadoussac (i don't remember if there are any older ones) but it is true that i would not consider the era of the explorers as part of the french presence in america. it's certainly part of quebec history, but that's it.
tadoussac, île aux sables, île sainte-croix, port royal. we cannot speak of a real colony at this point because there is no permanent establishment, but the colonization effort has indeed started with the achievement of its main objective: the fur trade.
au vas-is-is
you took my wife from me
i think it's more to make fun of the premier of saskatchewan who said his province is a nation.
> i would have a lot to say about the baby blue bar which figures at 487 the number of years of francophone presence in canada ...
cartier's first trip was in 1534, 2021 - 1534 = 487, i don't think we can consider basque fishermen to represent france, so do you go?
there is a discussion of an article pushing for saskatchewan independence.
shitpost
"welcome to the new canada rené!!!"
you don't understand, it's positive discrimination ...
virtue eats its own children, it's beautiful to see that. when we stretch the meaning of words and when we make concepts say anything, well it gives such nonsense.
i think the negavotes mostly have to do with the mention of qs.
i agree but could you also include the link for what you mean by qs. election promise? proposed law?
it's a little ironic that you give the link to 2 article to support your point but not for what you criticize qs.
«patanjali kambhampati, a professor in the chemistry department at montreal’s mcgill university, believes the death knell for the latest grant was a line in the application form where he was asked about hiring staff based on diversity and inclusion considerations.»
even the researcher himself is not sure and thinks this is the reason why he was refused the grant.
i really can't understand the links you are trying to make between these two articles and qs. could this be “anti-woke” radicalization?
i thought we had stopped basing ourselves on skin color in the 90s-2000s, but oh boy, it's so back to * the * norm in the last decade: we take a step forward but we suddenly backs off two? ** human ** lives matter, right?
i don't understand why this pole is being negavoted so much
lol nice troll.
so you stand for racism?
it really scares me to see people who put up with it.
the germans said the same thing to the jews: it's positive for me!
the americans said the same thing to blacks: it's positive for me!
the british said the same thing to the indians: it's positive for me!
the canadians said the same thing to the french canadians: it's positive for me!
edit: u / babettelabaleine: you don't miss the / s?
and yet their anti-racist collective rambles on identical idiots ....
addition: the worst part is that if they did not adhere to identity politics and associated racism, i would support them.
[
they are opposed to secularism, the separation of state and religion
i can't find the link, but qs has an anti-racist collective that ... well ... that advocates identity politics. so who advocates the kind of behavior that i criticize in the two articles cited.
the big problem with "all lives matter" in response to blm saying "but this is society, all lives are equal" is that it erases the problem that blacks live. here, obviously these arguments are very very very centered on the united states but there is nevertheless a big problem of racism of the police in quebec. i can't remember what town on the north shore of mtl is, but there was an article a few weeks ago on the police sub that was still picking up black residents for no reason.
the blm movement has never said white or asian lives are worthless, so why do you take offense at the slogan black lives matter? their slogan is not black lives matter more than whites, it's just black lives matter. point. by answering all lives matter, it's like saying "well the damn blacks they still want to be talked about, but yeah, think of us whites too!" it's really whitewashing. you just have to have a little empathy and ask yourself why they came up with such a big movement with that slogan.
blacks experience problems with the police and the justice system which is really not present among whites. their lives literally don't have the same weight as a white man's life. there are hundreds of examples of this in the news in the states: a black gets killed by the police for no reason, while a white who commits a murder gets away with zero consequences. pi these things happen again and again. it's never an isolated incident, it's their fucking life, if you're black you're really more at risk of getting killed by the police. you're really more at risk of being intercepted for a "random" check that slips into violent arrest or murder. to be black in the states is really to be a sub-person, that's why "black lives matter". they just want to be the same as everyone else. they don't want to be better than the rest, just get the same treatment. just put an end to the racism of institutions and the police.
seeing the downvotes do people want more racism?
getting downvoted to want people to be first and foremost treated like humans, you are doing hard in tabarnak.
hey ... on this point it's a bit contentious.
i believe there are three big problems with blm:
they have a marketing problem. they should be ** black lives matter too. ** the message gets better so i think.
the other aspect of their problem is that there are a lot of people who are socio-economically disadvantaged in blm and these are people who are more violent, less educated, etc. and that leads to several slips. ironically this only supports their movement since blacks are disproportionately disadvantaged socio-economically.
the third problem is that there are black racists who hide in the movement and that harms them.
in short, i understand and agree that all human lives matter, but that doesn't mean that a movement that denounces the injustices of a particular group has no place. but as you see, i have big problems with blm (but since it's not a single monolithic movement ... hard to tackle the problem).
* ... he said, looking at himself in the mirror. *
i ... quote two articles from the national post. these are facts. objective reality. i say i find it disgusting. is that a troll?
okay fuck hockey, but don't touch my clementines in winter.
[no thank you, i don't really like clementines.] (
do you eat clementines that much to make it bother you?
at the same time it's the season, op probably had his idea of polling at the supermarket!
fuck the pips especially when you don't expect it
i think i'll go take a walk in the tuesday mongrain thread
what makes me badtripper is when the seed is in the last quarter of clementine that i eat. it also happens to me often, and it ends badly my experience of eating a clementine.
if there are seeds, it's not a clementine.
edit: where is the tangerine maybe? i don't know… hahahaha
when i reached the 7th pip of my first clementine i wondered what would be more frustrating than that .. i had to have raisins on halloween, to have internet helix and the minister of the nordics
a fruit without seeds means a sterile plant. means to buy seeds again.
it is not very very beautiful as a project, to make the fruit sterile
raisins still pass. i'm old enough to remember the fluffy peanuts in the bottom of the bag!
if your leak has no seeds, it can't reproduce.
it's a big rabbit hole that opens up in front of you if you want to check that out.
criss if i ride at 105 on the motorway, pi tu passes me that's bin correct. but think if we are the only 2 on the road, pi that you cut me to return to the right lane as quickly as possible and that there are 3 cm of space between our 2 tanks, suce my ship my / my / honey tabarnak
i arrived my christmas lights at the end of the week, because it was beautiful worse, i told that it would be a little joy to see this, as i feel semi it's time.
yesterday i realized that there is a set that works. of course, less thousand. who eats shot.
we made an offer on a house following our weekend visit.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah
sia's christmas songs it looks like the cries i make when i stuck bizoune in the zipper and the entire album is in my blonde's christmas playlist
strongly december 26
after a covivi19 test result:
your child is in complete insulation at home and cannot participate in any outdoor or public activity. this includes friends 'visits, parks, extra-school activities, etc.
however, you can send it to school.
esti dbout virgin, must jla ris celle-la.
#schoolsdontspreadnoshitweperfectbitch
i am tired of advertising, a boycot should be starting from all the products and services that we see in an advertisement
those who have to deal with co-workers that cut round corners because they don't try to do more than the lastest effort, but the butterfly effect makes up the marde amplified in your yard at the end of the end of the account - kossé what you do not to trap nerves ?!
bad is not even a question of "don't want to exercise * (insert low pay here) * - they win too expensive to do a slappy job.
are you just me that it gosse the names stylized? pi is all the time in the world it sells who have important positions, kind of ceo / executive / ultra-specialized doctor. last supporting case: métro ceo, éric la flèche. i have seen only one in my life that really had a name or the determining it was separate, pi esti was working on it at tim hortons. "of the fountain". except that, never seen a caliss. you won't make me believe that all the beautiful world up there have not just stylized their names ... "la pointe", "de seas", "le blanc", "le noir", etc etc
let's see which crime poff i still have fret feet
anecdote time: marde evening
last week i had my winter tires fitted by a mechanic friend who works from him. when the time comes to go and look for my car, which i left all day with him, i write to him in text to inform him that i am coming (by bus). he calls to tell me that my car will not be ready before 7:30 pm. but i cannot wait until there: i have my children to go to school and evening meetings, from 6.30 pm! he agrees to lend me a car while waiting, but on arriving at him, he is not there, and i cannot reach him.
therefore i let the car fall and go on foot to children's school. while walking, i call my mother to ask her if i can borrow her car. i pick up the children, take the bus with them to my mother's work, go fetch her car, then go home to eat dinner in 10 minutes chrono before leaving for the 6:30 pm appointment.
arrived on site, i read my emails to learn that the specialist had canceled by 3:00 pm but i didn't see it ... in the interpretation, my car was ready, so i go to my friend to pick up the car, move them tires the best i can to make room for 2 children, and go home to drop off tires and children, before going to get my mother at work to take her to her car, and get to my 2nd meeting you.
cursed marde evening!
the 6pm telejournal is the only program i listen to live and they screw at every osti break the slam pub in downtown !!!
it just gives me less want to go!
where are the rice krispies? there is nowhere!
i need my rice krispies!
there is a tabaslack who wants to destroy his bungalow to build a modern atrocity christian on 3 floors. this is going to be laiiiid your too expensive home in a prefab district from the 70s!
i don't want to harm people in life, but i want to vote against his project! (but i would not, live and let live even if it's going to be milky and could inspire others to disnature the neighborhood for a shenoute fashion)
i pay $ 200 per month for my esti home insurance. fuck intact insurance.
there are one or esti of cellars that block my suburban train at the moment and they pit me royally!
and i left 40 min
being a security officer is esti de marde. i all criss it the uddess chu returned in restoration.
chu less ben paid, but i don't have to deal with thick tabarcrissiboirnafuckul.
well done! this is the first time i have read an inclusive tabarnak in my life.
can you talk about the world also that stuff your ass and flash their high when you're already exceeding 120?
eille my big frustried with the ball hole, my trolley already has trouble to survive at these speeds-there so take your patience in patience
> i arrived my christmas lights at the end of the week, because it was beautiful worse, i told that it would be a little joy to see this, since i feel semi it's time.
the rules of 'when you have the right to set up your decorations and make your christmas tree' should not be dicted by the syndic du grinch.
[deleted]
what region are you in?
an idea like that, but if you have a craftsman in your corner who makes cutting boards with insertion, he could possibly do this to you, because the same principle of insertion for the game of chess.
a little left field as an idea, but you could look towards the national school of furniture and cabinetmaking in montreal (on de lorimier). there might be a way to contact a motivated student who is looking for a project to test techniques.
there are surely artisans in craft shows who could do it.
try it on the made in quebec facebook group
i am in laval.
it's a good idea, i'll try to do my research in this direction. thank you!
it is very good (corner of saint hyacinthe)
u / picbois
good luck with your research!
thank you, i will contact him!
thanks, but i wasn't the one looking!
i think op will see it now
just because it's worse in the states, don't think our conditions are screeching good here. how many times have i been in the office with a super sick colleague who had no sick days? or "i have already taken my 2 sick days, i have no choice but to come to the office". fuck that working with someone super sick or having the common cold that spreads to 15 other people.
all minimum wage jobs with only 2 weeks vacation per year? it is wack in esti.
40-hour weeks? it drains energy in esti pi it leaves you zero time to decompress pi take care of your whole life pi your household pi your activities.
compare our conditions with europe. take a more critical look at what we could change. it's not the dumpster fire of the united states, but it's still a drain (not on fire)
edit: pi with mononcle legault who thinks that we are not productive enough, that we should not have one more holiday, don't worry, we are becoming americanized in esti in quebec. you have to push to go in the other direction
i dreamed of being a diver in the ocean not in a brewery.
i'm not anti-work, but i'm very happy to see the pendulum come back to the employees' side. i'm especially angry with the system. growing economic inequalities and asking me how to achieve the economic goals i want to achieve in life.
in the end, i think that this applies mainly to the united states but canada and quebec still have a little way to go. in the good ideas, i continue to believe in the week of 32 hours / 4d and to see towards the decrease.
this is a consequence of employer abuse at a time when it was easily possible to fire one person and hire another the next day for less. the famous "stop complaining i can replace you tomorrow morning!"
when an employer can fire you on the spot but you have the obligation to give 2 weeks' notice, at one point there was a lot of animosity towards the employers.
there is also the aspect that certain companies will declare not to be able to offer better working conditions but subsequently to offer important bonuses to the bosses. its adds to the cynicism of employees and since there is a strong demand to fill positions everywhere, employees have more freedom to choose their working conditions.
so the trend where the employer burned the bridges with no real consequence is to reverse and now the employees are much less worried about burning the bridges in their turn. and it is not exclusively a question of salary, it is also a question of the attitude of the employers and of all working conditions. talks a lot about the increasing importance of work-family balance, but for some it is more the search for work-mental health / well-being.
have all seen or waited for the famous story of the guy or the girl who worked hard all his life, only to end up in the grave barely 1 year after his retirement. is that the point of life?
the sub was good when he started (in terms of message and values) now it's full of fake texts and young adults being encouraged to quit their jobs instead of getting kicked out and being unemployed before the next step.
tragic 🤷‍♂️
i would say that it applies a lot more in the united states than here. i'm not so much of a sub fan. there are legitimate criticisms of marde employers. on the other hand, sometimes it's just people who bitch about their work for nothing. its depends on the post honestly
i really disagree with the other reviews saying it's just in the us. it is definitely here in several spheres as well.
it's by americans for americans on working conditions in the usa
that being said, to do with the au pied de cochon affair and how some workers are treated here, there is some legitimacy in harshly criticizing how the workplace has to innovate and workers should be the winners of these. changes there, to the detriment of overconsumption and non-sharing of wealth.
we are in a situation where some employers ask their employees for the moon, and only offer peanuts in return.
it was okay until recently, because you had to be lucky at least to have a job, but with the aging of the population and the widening of the gaps between the rich and the poor, it becomes less and less justifiable to pay. someone a pittance, when everyone is looking to hire. if your boss drives around in an audi, and treats you like shit, it's no surprise that you take your stuff or go to work somewhere else.
honestly, i don't think the movement is a flash in the pan, the manpower problem is here to stay. the economy wants to grow, but we don't have more people. yes, maybe a recession is going to put a damper in the wheels of the movement, but i don't think it's going to be anything more than a temporary drag.
personally i agree with the principle. working at mcdo doesn't mean you shouldn't be able to live. at the same time, riding the gold because you created your landscaping company that hires people who have no other options at minimum wage, it's downright disgusting.
it is true that the quality of the posts has declined in recent weeks. on the other hand, i don't get tired of watching the number of subscribers climb by a few thousand every time i look or see photos of leaves stuck on the front door of a fast food restaurant that all the employees have suddenly left. . it's so shocking, the exploitation and the ultra-rich getting richer on the backs of employees who can't even go to the bathroom. if there is a mass of people who decide that it is enough and that they act, so much the better. the sub will end up eating all round as we often see with this kind of movement, but in the meantime, seeds are planted.
moreover, the montreal ecological bulk store terre à soi will have a "blackout friday" and will remain closed this friday. have they had this in mind for a few years? were they lacking in employees who want to run the not even good deals of things they don't need? may be. but i like to believe that there is this wind of anti-work in their sails.
i fully support.
workers of all countries, unite!
i completely agree with the principle, with that worse r / rectruitinghell too.
it is certain that these are subs that apply mainly to the united states, so there are a lot of things that do not apply here (or at least, not as much), but it is still relevant.
giving two weeks notice, in general, is not compulsory, and your boss when he fires you, he gives you no notice. it's pick up your things and go away. you don't have time to prepare for the future, you fall with nothing overnight. yes, at least we have unemployment here, but it's not been long since it was improved (and who knows if it will stay with all the whining about the pku). i'm not saying it's always a good idea not to give notice, but on the other hand, sometimes it really doesn't work except giving them two more weeks to torment you.
working conditions (pay, overtime, full time, vacation, holidays, benefits, etc.) here aren't great for regular jobs either. it often happens in restaurants to have cut-off hours and schedules that change every week, so in the end, you're never able to plan your life. we also notice that the lower the salary, the rougher the job, in general. the minimum wage often involves working with a poor clientele, an unstable schedule, incomprehensible bosses who believe they can do anything, and difficult tasks for the body. do not wonder why these positions are not filled.
we will have to ask ourselves the question: are these jobs really necessary? if so, do you really need everyone to be there 40 hours a week? yes, we have become much more productive than before and automation is coming more and more, but yet we still work 40 hours a week and it is still necessary to work just to live. there is clearly something wrong.
it kind of reminds me of some kind of proto-movement that leads to something similar to the chinese “flat bed”. for those who don't know, the “lie flat” (“lie flat” in english, * tangping * in mandarin) is a movement of young chinese workers who have essentially given up to their economic situation, which they deem hopeless. in the chinese socio-economic situation, and now prefer to give up all ambition and do the bare minimum of work to survive and enjoy the little bit of leisure that their situation allows them.
the original philosophy was perhaps interesting, even had some positives as a counterbalance to a society of compulsive overwork, but it soon became a toxic environment that crushes any good that might come out of it. it is a kind of "red pill" of the labor market.
for starters, i find the name * anti-work * confusing haha. at first i really believed that the * sub * was against work. but it is more americans who criticize capitalism, and it is all in all, * legit *.
because capitalism is an economic system that does not take into account inequalities in wages / wealth. which causes huge * gap * between social classes. ideally, to reduce the gaps, it is up to the government to intervene and redistribute wages / wealth equitably. except that very often the policies put in place will favor a class, to the detriment, in this case if the workers.
already the united states is a capitalist country made up of political inequality (politicians represent the interest of the richer), there is on top of that an anti-union climate. a nice combination in order to mad \ * \ * er the employees.
so it's fun to see a * sub * where there are workers who help and support each other. as many say, it's far from perfect, with false texts. then i see that it becomes quite politicized, a more * liberal * current which in my opinion is a bad omen.
i don't know of any * sub * quebecois of this kind. from what i see, people don't seem to be really interested or are not informed enough about the problems related to the economy.
i think the movement reflects changes in the thinking of new generations. i mean, it's not the movement that makes the world no longer want to do boring jobs and dedicate their life to work, it's that the world has more expectations of their lives that creates the movement. .
in the end, i think that the shortage of manpower for many trades is here to last, it will pay off, fewer and fewer people want to do their jobs here.
personally i'm not cracking my ass to get lots of diplomas to finally realize that i find it screeching boring 9 to 5 and office work, and i have no idea what kind of job i would like dedicated my life as one is supposed to do except for too short weekends and vacations. it means that i cash (the flat work, and my salary), i invest then the goal is retirement at 45 years old at the latest. even though i have great conditions, i hate it and i hate the lack of freedom. it gets dark so early, i only have the right to go for a hike in the woods if the weather is nice this weekend? i feel stuck and then i have the impression that a lot of people are like that but are so used to it that they forget that there are other things. life is fucking too short.
i think a lot of people agree that life is fucking too short, even in quebec! but the boomers will have to stop having the bulk of political power.
it's like everywhere on reddit, there's hilarious, sad, and squeaky. in short, enough to spend a long, boring evening.
he is a radical left-wing anarchist who wants to abolish work because currently we live as a wage slave.
but, everyone thinks it's just a bitch about their job or wanting to improve working conditions in the us ...
edit: to add a link to their faq for those who doubt !!
it is a perfectly legitimate movement in response to employer abuse. it applies to quebec, without a shadow of a doubt.
i had three cancers this year, including pancreatic cancer which kills in a matter of weeks. i got out of it.
i am an aeronautical technician. i lost my job, my boss never asked me how it was going. this week he sent me an invoice for me to reimburse him for the insurance portion he paid for me, like all employers do. but no one dares to ask to be reimbursed, it is not done.
he made $ 26 million after tax last year. i no longer have a salary, no more health, and i receive $ 635 per month from the government. but he needs more money than i guess.
don't ask us why we are completely sick of the profiteers. i will never work for someone again.
i think it's a human right to work 32 hours a week, $ 20 an hour and a minimum of 4 weeks vacation. the rich bosses finally have the change of their coin. if a company is not able to provide these conditions to its employees it does not deserve to exist.
it is high time that we redditors were heard. i always said to myself that we should control society since we are of a higher intellect. look at the caq which governs us, it's hard!
when your only "left" is biden or obama, it looks like that.
it was not very democratic at the base in my opinion .. the way the electoral college works, and the senate vs the house of representatives, it's more 'clusterfuck that makes you vote in a vacuum unless you be in the handful of key states but anyway the other party is going to block everything in the house / senate lol 'that democracy.
a two-party system i think it's pretty cool too, it divides people but in the end there is absolutely nothing to change between the parties in power.
but at least the ruling party is
...
democrat.
okay, i'm going out.
interesting to learn about the different levels of democracy in different countries. thank you for sharing the article
> a historic turning point occurred in 2020-2021 when former president donald trump questioned the legitimacy of the 2020 election results in the united states
at the same time, doesn't the fact that he failed miserably prove that american democracy is solid?
neoliberalism is cancer.
progressive ftw.
why is the downvote already? could you explain how you disagree with my comment instead of reacting emotionally?
rip the gang
it is very democratic, the government is becoming as stupid as its people.
the democratic people's republic of korea and the german democratic republic, two democracies that have made history ...
a ranking that i also recommend is the freedom house ranking. why? because it is one of the rankings which is the most transparent on how it works and above all which is relatively fair. for example, the economist put almost all the countries with declining indices in 2020 because they did not respect the freedoms because of the pandemic, while freedom house is content to take points only from the countries which were taking advantage of the pandemic to do things they weren't supposed to do, they weren't taking points away from all western countries.
i'm pretty stupid, but it seems to me that when a coup d'etat fails, you send those responsible to prison, don't you?
even if it is a reasoning which is logical, in political science it does not work the same. even, it's the other way around. the general consensus in political science is that a failed coup is not a sign of stability but, on the contrary, of instability. why? basically, the reasoning is that "in a stable country there would have been no attempt at leaving".
and as some point out, the fact that american justice is cautious about sending high-ranking officials to prison shows the limits of the system, because in a healthy democracy the fact of arresting everyone who have tried to undermine the existence of democracy should achieve consensus and be done easily.
new to reddit?
bof, from what i saw, in the polls the population agrees on like 85% of the stakes. the political game does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the population.
they actually made history ...
democratic republic of congo and its famous congolexification of the market ...
100% for sweden ... they are strong!
can you send me the ranking link you talk about
unemployed pudding, big time.
sucre à la crème and all its derivatives: creamy sugar tart, creamy sugar log, cookies with creamy sugar nuggets.
unemployed pudding without eggs without cream. it is an unemployed pudding, not a bourgeois pudding.
grandfather
maple pudding unemployed is on the boat. the best i do not know, but on the tick. and quebecois.
some elements that were on the "dessert table" during my great-grandmother's time:
unemployed maple pudding
"mille feuilles" (with graham crackers rather than puff pastry)
raspberry squares (giant cookie dough sandwich with raspberries in the center .. cut like a cake)
pets de soeur (small rolls of pie dough (looks like a brioche) in a base of maple syrup)
pudding au pain
potato donuts (plain, or in powdered juice)
sugar pie (maple) with whipped cream (real, not cool whip, viarge)
potato donuts!
a good fret pizza
sugar tape (the real one, which contains more fat than sugar)
where are the sweet potatoes?
i hesitate between the unemployed pudding or the sisters' farts ... it's quebecois i create?
sugar pie !!!
i often make fruit salad cake
a sissy fart
baked pecan pie with a large coaticook ice cream on it.
unemployed pudding.
at home we eat roasted snow squares! i've never seen it anywhere other than my grandmother's. basically, it's egg whites mounted in snow, cut into cubes and rolled in a little sweet breadcrumbs. when the time comes to eat that, we pour a bit of cognac sauce, i'm telling you, it's like rolling on the ground. it melts in your mouth, it's stupid!
sugar pie!
tourtiere st hubert
my grandmother made old-fashioned homemade donuts with maple mousse. it was creaking into the walls. out of 13 grandchildren we were 11 guys. it came to blows a few times *.
* not really but it adds spice to my story. we stubbornly persisted, and afterwards we went to play weasel or the thief package.
the vigilante woke!
the hoop that would absolutely appear out of nowhere at [1:00] (
ha. my kids love py.
skate on thin ice but i liked it
the only pass that i found funny is:
- can i have some water?
- do not !
i do not find. it pokes fun at both those who can't help but lecture everyone and the misperceptions of the natives.
it's fuel to sjw his business. if you approach this skit without a sense of humor and hear words and see pictures at the first level you're going to be called racist and culturally appropriate. do not forget that we are now living in a very sad world where we can no longer discuss lightly the situation of the oppressed in society. it is necessarily an insult or an assault.
those who are offended by this kind of light and good-natured humor can go and graze :)
my reason for playing sea of thieves was to imitate [these guys] (
it's been a long time since i played, but i embark (pun intended) if a group is made.
sea of steves
i'm up to it, if you help me figure out how to play sea of thieves! i find that online trolls, no way to start quietly ...
is it sea of thieves crossplay? otherwise you would probably have to mention which platform you are playing on.
write to me and i'll be down!
it's been a long time since i played, i would love to see the new content.
write to me if you are looking for another player. i play on pc.
me, i play it would make me happy dear pirate 🏴‍☠🦜🏴‍☠
you can check the discord too! ;) 
i play on ps4, if you play online on psn, write to me.
oh yes. it's crossplay between pc and xbox. i play on xbox.
wait, sea of thieves is not on ps4 ?! no?
sea of thieves is not on ps4 but i am always open to playing in french with francophiles
- what do you call that a black man who heats a plane?
- hmm i do not know ?
- a pilot, racist screeches!
the ad reminds me of this joke a lot.
> asked about the absence of the qualifier in english advertising, minister benoit charette's spokesperson rosalie tremblay-cloutier mentioned a choice of translation. the word québécois would not have the same connotation as the quebecer translation, which would refer more to a person whose mother tongue is french.
that they use * québécois * then, in english. i like * québécois * much better than quebecer and there are more and more english-speaking authors who use it.
in my opinion, the french pub is good, being quebecer is not seen as an identity as inclusive as being canadian. i am an immigrant and several other 2nd-3rd generation immigrants share this point of view. it is time that maybe that changed.
i am of the contrary opinion of the article. if your goal is anti-racist advertising, it's rather disgusting to make the distinction of friend * québéçois * in the french version. because we have to wrap the message to target quebecers specifically?
> the government of quebec must set an example: a quebecker is anyone who lives in quebec. if he himself refuses to send this message, who will do it? "asks mp pascal bérubé.
doesn't come to tell us that an albertan who moves to quebec becomes québécois. a quebecois is more than the place of residence, it is a culture, an ethnicity. sur surpasses the place of residence.
*edith:*
* if you crown like a quebecer, you're quebecer! as simple as that in my book. *
* since many people bother to comment without reading the conversation, i would like to reiterate my mistake by using a word that causes so much trouble. "identity" is much more conducive to what i want to express. *
personally, i find that adding quebecois to the french ad makes no sense. i understand why they put it, because the racists talk about "imported". is it just that if i meet a group of congolese in a park, i have the right to be racist and to call the police?
being from quebec is just getting used to quebec.
being french canadian is our culture.
they should change the 4 ads to put frogs and frogs friends like that the anglos will feel included and the nationalists will remember that we were born for a tit bread
this is wrong on so many levels. the government is literally saying that anglophones are not considered quebecois. unreal.
and why the need to bring politics into it anyway? it's supposed to about anti-racism, not nationalism. the english version is therefore actually better in this regard. crazy!
excellent! i was excited to tell the joke to my dad who is a pilot (retired) and it doesn't work ... because he's the kind of grinch who picks up on people who say 'heat up' or 'drive' a airplane; i didn't have time to finish the joke.
he's been forgetting everything for some time, so i'm going to do it again for him at christmas and i'm going to replace "who heats an airplane" by "at the controls of an airplane". hehehe!
i hear * québécois * more often than * quebecker * among english speakers (and allophones) who live here.
quebecois is as of 2021 by the caq reserved for an identifier exclusively french speakers in quebec. anglophones allophones are no longer included under the current administrations televised and internal publications as being quebecois. thus,  if you see people in the park in quebec, they may or may not be quebecois, so in a sense, labelling them as quebecois would actually be profiling.
> in my opinion, the french pub is good, being quebecer is not seen as an identity as inclusive as being canadian.
no, and that's fine. we don't want canadian-style inclusion where you're canadian the first day you get off the plane and let no one tell you otherwise! except immigration canada for several years.
you can work there as hard as you want, you'll never be more canadian than your first day in canada. in fact, according to justin trudeau, you are more canadian than the people born in canada that day because you chose canada and not them.
in quebec, you have to integrate. being a quebecer means something. we will favor unifying and welcoming words more than inclusive.
it is because there is the québécois as an ethnic group and the québécois as a citizen of quebec.
someone is part of the ethnic group when he integrates and adopts the quebec identity including language, culture and history as well as all the fights related to his defense and his right to exist.
a quebecer as a citizen of quebec may not identify as an ethnic quebecer and prefer to identify himself as a canadian or some other origin.
for example, i have friends of haitian origin who have been in quebec for at least 2 generations. they are truly quebecers. they speak the language, know the culture and history and firmly defend the french fact and the existence of the quebec people as an ethnic group.
i have other friends, mostly english speaking, that if we tell them that they are quebecois, they will look at you with a bad eye and let you know that they are canadian and do not want to know anything about being identified as than quebecois.
a quebecer is someone who resides in quebec. even rené lévesque said that.
why not have your albertan become quebecois? it is his choice his identity. that there is a culture, yes, but an ethnicity, really? which ? whites of catholic education and of french origin?
are you suggesting that one can only be born a quebecer, and never become one?
as an immigrant here in quebec who considers himself a quebecer and who has defended quebec in all its struggles for over 20 years, thank you!
culture ok but ethnicity?
ethnonationalism is no. you don't have to be white to be a quebecker. i can't believe reading it here
> doesn't tell us that an albertan who moves to quebec becomes a quebecois. a quebecois is more than the place of residence, it is a culture, ** an ethnicity **. sur surpasses the place of residence.
this is exactly how we see from outside the quebec bubble. even if we live for 20, 30 years, speak the language, work and live in french, we will never be considered quebecois.
as we mentioned above in the comments, being canadian is more inclusive, anyone can be, but quebecer means one of the founding peoples of canada, it is more exclusive as a term.
so, if we are never going to be considered quebecois, why make an effort to “integrate”?
> because the message must be packaged to target quebecers specifically?
well yes, it is an advertisement of the government of quebec. but if you've been following the ad, you know that quebeckers include black people who * chill * in parks at night.
afterwards, the world here bashed holness because he said that quebeckers did not consider other quebeckers because they are anglo or / and of color. people here denied even that it exists.
thanks for proving my point.
you don't have to be french-canadian to have the culture ...
he decided to make an eggception. he tries to scramble the eggs, turn it around without looking in the mirror, but we see "yellow on white" that he has cracked and that it might turn sour for him.
nb: just a comment with a bunch of egg puns that like him shouldn't be taken too seriously;)
all the sheep that gave him money to get rich and finally he got vaccinated 😂
you must show proof of vaccination to travel to the united states and he is currently in las vegas. he is clearly vaccinated. he has just published a video in which he cries because everyone in vegas wears the mask inside.
and no one is surprised.
what is a paypal?
can anyone give me proof that he was against vaccination? to my knowledge he was against health measures and against the vaccine passport but not against the vaccine itself.
the masquarade is over!
oh * pretend to be surprised *
that doesn't mean he's vaccinated. people were going to look for false proofs of vaccination from ontario which they exchanged for real proofs from quebec, quebec not validating those from ontario (and vice versa).
fascinating.
when you went to take pictures of the world having lunch. haha
who told you that the restaurant asked for his passport? since september i have been asked for my passport 3 times (twice at the cinema). you just have to know the places where you go or the people who take care of the entrance :)
> should not be taken too seriously
yet you make a big deal out of it!
wow, for making all these puns, i give you the score of egg out of ten!
you really forced yourself into it.
he is a milky man.
ban! i call to the biggest ban that can exist!
no need to back the bun! we can see his collapse!
it would have been funnier without the nota bene tbqhwyf
caliss de tabarnak that i'm cramped sorry i have nothing better to say just appreciation
horlage
female nam
(latin horolagium, from the greek hôrolagion, from hôra, hour, and lagein, to say)
1. fixed haarian apparatus, large dimensians, passing an indician device of the haure on a dial, and save a sannerie device of the haures and demi-haures.
it looks like clockwork but pronounced by a ch'ti with a very strong accent.
i think it's a spelling error
horlage means "cock". it is in english where they made the mistake.
i saw a decorative "gamer" frame for sale in stores, it reads:
'take back the game.' and the text covers like 35% of the frame, it's really obvious.
post this on / r / trouduction.
hooray! what a gentleman!
it's a typo, it should read "orloge".
mine says roasting instead of roasting
it makes me want to listen to some orlage simard that
i recognized the display in your photo, i also have a ge stove like yours. i went to see and on mine it is written correctly. i bought it in 2011.
in macross plus, sometimes you see monitors in the background saying "alart"
your oven is simply beauce proof
i'm from new brunswick, we spell it like "whoreloge", or "whorelage" over there., ... but i can't say anything apropos if it's an oven made in quebec. have a nice day!
take out the good friend and torch that oven for me to the most sacred my boyfriend.
it's the hour counted in horl's age
my oven has the same kind of display, i went to check if the error was also ... i am disappointed that it was not.
a guy who got lost in his xd keyboard
hey everybody !! the box - the horla
make yourself a little musical velor!
i can't understand the problem. who has no harlage at home?
basically, they say the project is going to be carbon neutral because by the end of construction, the cars will be all electric ...
/r/paslenavet
meh. tunnels are always electric.
but on the other hand, the concrete to make the segments ...
it's so thick as reasoning.
> i'm going to build myself a carbon neutral house because the tank i'm going to put in the garage is going to be electric!
according to this logic, all transport infrastructure created after 2030 would therefore be carbon neutral ...
i don't know what he was thinking when he said that.
> basically, they say that the project will be carbon neutral because by the end of construction, the cars will be all electric ...
what is the factual problem with this reasoning?
building a non-existent tunnel because the 3rd link is bigger than anything that has been done before is not carbon neutral either!
the trucks to move the hollow matter, it is not wind power that on more ... casually, its going to be a not worse pile of rock / earth ...
your course entry asphalt would be a better comparison. and guess what, you can do it with gravel or grass.
the construction factor for new vehicles, the increase in the vehicle fleet linked to the project by induced demand, the increase in real estate development linked to the project, the urban sprawl that it will create, deforestation and the transformation of agricultural territories.
1. to be carbon neutral, shouldn't we compensate for the ghgs produced by the machinery and materials required for construction?
2. it encourages the auto-solo lifestyle and urban sprawl which in itself lead to an increase in ghgs (producing an electric car is more polluting than improving the possibilities of public transport)
3. even after 2035 there will be gasoline vehicles for several years.
it is not fair to drive electric which makes the car carbon neutral, but it requires that the production of the car be carbon neutral too (extraction of resources, transformation of components, etc.).
currently this is not the case, it is just less worse than a gas car (and again, the more cars increase in battery capacity, the more the ghg gap emitted by an electric and gas car decreases. )
to be carbon neutral, the car would have to capture ghgs to offset the emissions that were necessary for its production in addition to offsetting the monstrous amount of ghgs that were required to produce the concrete for this project.
> what is the factual problem with this reasoning?
it's rubbish, it's completely illogical and it's a lie.
in no way, even with 100% electric vehicles, can a mega-project like this be carbon neutral. they have to dig a tunnel under the river ... i mean cowl ...
in addition to the fact that an electric vehicle is not carbon neutral at all. worse, there is not just the construction to take into account, there is the recycling which is more complex and the pollution, it does not come only from the exhaust. a significant part comes from wear, mainly tires and brakes.
thank you for the explanation
they only have to plant trees already planted to offset their emissions.
the construction of the tunnel itself also includes its share of ghgs (production of concrete, machinery, transport of material to the site, transport of excavated material, etc.).
not stupid. in fact, the growth of existing trees in quebec will make the project carbon-negative. so much so that we will be able to sell anti-co2 to make our pyramid under the river profitable.
it is you who should be in the environment, not guilbault.
nah, i'm afraid of heights.
> but with my background, i am sure to end up in the wastepaper basket.
you haven't looked enough. everyone has been ripping off people in it since long before the pandemic. diploma or not, you'll find out, keep knocking.
the trap for you would be precisely that an employer wants you so much that he encourages you to fall full time without finishing your studies ...
yes. you could work without having a diploma.
maybe to work in the government as a consultant, you will need the diploma.
but you've already done more than 50%. finish your course. don't give it up.
i have several friends who have computer jobs while they are in school (and they didn't have a college degree in computer science).
it is not everywhere that they ask for the transcript that being said.
i worked from my 2nd year of study in software engineering, even negotiated for my employer to pay my tuition fees until the end of my baccalaureate. did my internships there.
that was like 10 years ago, now with the current situation you could find it even easier and with better deals.
and (when i personally interview people, i can't speak for everyone) we don't check the transcript so much, more how the person behaves in the interview and his or her portfolio so present. we also have a technical test, but for a student we don't expect much. basically the main point is that he does well in the team as an individual. and honestly i would even say that having just a + everywhere is more fishy than running a course, it takes a little special people to have a + everywhere.
i worked in a start-up that hired students. full time during an internship, 8 to 30 p.m. a week during the sessions.
finished your bac…. besides, i find his suspicious an employer who asks for transcripts ... never heard of his.
don't worry about your future, unless you're not very good (and i know a lot of not particularly good bachelors ... who always spank the documentation part in college team projects not know how to design or code like the world).
faculty if you are any good or motivated to learn, not worry about you. it at the moment, there is money to be made and positions to be filled!
but like everyone else you are told, your worst blunder would be to give up halfway… better a bac with resumption of courses than no bac….
the companies are snapping up the candidates, even interns there are none! i advise you to put the emphasis on the projects you have done in your classes and if you have other personal ones it is even better.
for the lessons you sank, don't worry too much. as far as it is not a kind of pattern like an f per session and all the others just c. on the other hand for the courses that you take again, to my knowledge the two marks will be visible on your transcript with a mention " taken back". make sure you just go the extra mile for those to compensate.
if you have the flexibility to do an internship in the winter you are probably more fortunate because often the majority of students do their internship in the summer so you will have less competition.
for your ml intro course you mentioned in a comment, i imagine you used python? maybe try to broaden your knowledge with personal projects in this area, you will have fun and it will help your cv enormously.
good luck!
> is it possible to work in it while still in the process of obtaining the diploma?
yes. we pound our cegep trainees at the end of dec. after that there is always a couple who stay part time. others who try their hand, but who end up dropping out after having missed too many lessons, others who drop out of the job and come back later after their studies, etc.
anyway, yes.
[read the entire post]
oh..if you're full-time studying right now (not on a temporary stoppage of studies or in an internship session) and you don't have a dec / experience in the market ... i would have a hard time recommending your profile. we can't train you part-time, it would be boring for everyone.
the part-time we do that just with people we already know and who know the project because we know that they can do work before leaving in the afternoon for their course. we would never have a return on the investment in your case, too much hand holding and not enough time.
> it is certain that i have more knowledge than a first year student
yeah, no offense, but your knowledge is probably just as good as a first year, depending on the course.
btw stay away from snobbish places that ask to see your transcript.
if you are female, i suggest going to women hack. it is the "speed dating" interview with several employers in montreal or quebec exclusively for women. you have 15 min with hr and sometimes the directors are there too. it's free :)
or if not, there is also hackerx. same business but for men and women. also free.
you need to register on their own website and apply for a ticket.
tl; dr: yes, it is possible.
you have to succeed in standing out. do you have a cv with incomplete training, no related experience, no personal project, no competition, no certification ...? i wouldn't be interested in an interview.
in this situation, you have to show everything you can: a good transcript (which you don't have), a recommendation from the teacher of a relevant course, projects you have worked on in class, etc.
if you don't have any of that, you can try to convince employers for an internship or a simple junior position. a first experience could help a lot.
ideally, you have to choose a position that you would have the opportunity to touch a bit of everything and learn a lot. if you say you want to work in web, a web agency, that might be suitable.
you have to be a minimum competent, the employer must invest time to train you. if you're good, at the end of the internship, he'll want you to stay, after spending on training.
you can also focus on working on an interesting personal project to share with employers. no need to follow 8 tutorials to make a todo list app with different languages / frameworks ... it has little value. better to have one good project that you're proud to show off.
in an interview, showing that you are motivated to learn can also help.
once you have the first experience, you will be fine.
much the same situation here.
i have been an experienced sales representative for + 6 years, and following the covid, i decided to radically change my life (that and non-valuable feedback that frustrates), so i went on a data scientist training (which i finish in march)
linkedin profile updated with 11 certifications (and more to come) similarly on indeed
our training project is not yet finished either so not yet shareable but a git / streamlit is planned, and i am just as struggling to find a junior internship / job in data science near montreal
> the trap for you would be precisely that an employer wants you so much that he encourages you to fall full time without finishing your studies ...
op, take advice.
yeah, i think that too ... i'm not an exemplary student, but i can at least try to be an employee who is, just give myself a chance.
what job titles should i be looking for?
this will require experience or expertise, for example. no experience, no diploma, it's going to be difficult unless you find a place that really wants to take a chance.
to be a consultant to the government, you need at least an acs.
to work at revenu québec at the same level as a "professional", you need a bac.
i am a consultant and i worked without having my dec, so it must depend on where you are going
this is normal in coop programs, the transcript is attached to the file.
> if you're full-time studying right now (not on temporary study leave or in an internship session) and you don't have a dec / experience in the market ... i would have a hard time recommending your profile
the same. i do interviews for devs and it is mostly seniors that he seems to miss.
the juniors, we have candidates, but we have to plan more time to help, so the junior capacity that we can have is limited.
if he is full-time in class and works part-time, it's not just that he would have little time to work, but that if he already spends the majority of his time learning the theory of his classes and focus on projects, it can be difficult to learn all that is necessary for the job and become comfortable.
if it's in an agency on projects from scratch, it can go quickly to learn, but on a big project, you have to take enough time
what do you want to do ? there are lots of things and this is one of the reasons why an internship is important.
(video game developer / internal mail tracking application tester / network hardware installer / delivery project manager / functional analyst / research in artificial intelligence / web developer / ...)
everything related to data is in a good position for the future, dba (especially cloud these days ... so azure and company), sql dev, data scientist ...
the quebec floc ...
will it be possible to cut vegetation, unlike la prairie, to control phragmites and buckthorn, the first blocking the sun on the ponds and the second having poisonous leaves?
and while it may seem counterintuitive, letting the 4-wheel shift in the fall be beneficial. the wheels create troughs that fill with water in the spring and form an ideal habitat for tree frogs.
at first glance, it is a small-scale decree that does not require any restoration of the premises. a liberal boucane show?
ottawa could also adopt a decree to protect longueuil deer by reducing their number.
maybe that's the way to prevent the third link. you say that there is a species of cockroach that only exists there and you pass a law to protect it.
i've never agreed so well with anyone on reddit before you!
no, because the passage of vehicles will contaminate the habitat of the tree frog with particles from the tires and brakes.
at the same time it makes sense, it is an "emergency decree". essentially, it says: don't touch anything anymore. after that, it is up to the municipality to correct the errors that have already been made.
i think that the initial plan was to extend boulevard béliveau, and that it was already planned to build on either side of the boulevard.
now i understand, reading between the lines when the mayoress speaks (in an interview with radio-canada yesterday), that most likely the boulevard will eventually be finished, but without development on either side. to be continued !
ah yes, the famous cockroach of cap diamant ...
i don't think it's significant enough to contaminate that much, especially if we limit it to a few weeks in the fall (especially not in the spring)
you're not game to put that on / r / rance
tabèrnacle!
edith: a tabarnak barrrrbotte !!
nah nah nah, say `` colisse ''
so, fucking tabernacle!
a crazy thing!
leave this category to be done, it means absolutely nothing. often it is posted automatically with an ats (applicant tracking system) and there is not really an option in the ats so that this box is always the correct information.
source: i am a corporate recruiter
i had already seen a junior frontend position which required 5 years of experience with react, it had been a year since react existed ...
with the current market, you apply for the positions that interest you peas you see what that gives. often, even if you are missing a few tips, the employer who likes your profile will hire you and provide you with the training to upgrade you.
always ignore the experience and apply because you have nothing to lose. most of the offers are just copy and paste anyway.
the pataterie in my corner is hiring a cashier. they require a year of experience !!
let's see whose, why? do you really need previous experience to be paid minimum wage to put fries in a cash register?
apply anyway. especially if you already have a portfolio to present to them.
this is what we could answer to today's post asking for our opinion on / r / antiwork
it's entirely possible to have experience creating visual content even if you've never had a "real" job in the field. i have a friend who started out just as a hobby out of interest and was doing his own editing and volunteering for nonprofits.
if you have studied in the field, the projects done at school are 100% part of your experience too.
4 to 7 years old is a bit far-fetched though, but i would still apply for you.
what is the best website for it jobs? i'm looking for a telework job by finishing my baccalaureate this summer
7 years of internship.
ok, quick question here.
who has already followed this "job requirements" section to the letter in their job application? pcq personally if the position interests me and my skills / knowledge stick a little, i have always applied. (tse i say not apply to a surgeon's position with a bac in philosophy)
i've always seen this category as the employer's "wishful thinking zone" where they stick out and say what they want in an ideal world, but fuck him, we're not in an ideal world.
i would like to know the salary lol
indeed and the other aggregators are full of these kinds of errors. i am looking for aggregators, but i always go to the employer's site to submit my application.
have you done 3d voluntarily recently?
> the person who, cast in concrete takes given requirements, demonstrates as much understanding as a rock of flexibility.
-lao tzu
dude is the same everywhere. i've been looking for a 3d job for video games for 6 years. worse if i do an interview which is rare, it cuts quite short if you haven't worked in an aaa studio.
i have already picked myself up in an interview and been criticized for not having experience in advertising. seal flock you invite me for an interview for a position that requires experience in advertising when it is clearly indicated nowhere in my cv that i worked in advertising?
first job = not manager
by the way, in view of the comments, i specify that i am not looking for a job, i already have some. my girlfriend is self-employed and this job ad she saw made me laugh.
chu joined unisoft at 22 as his first job with 7 years of experience as a programmer, just saying. i had a good portfolio of personal stuff.
[relevant](
the myth of the charismatic leader and that of the big striker at the ch is the very fabric of quebec.
it is theoretically the best system, an enlightened despotism. but you will never find someone who can rule absolutely taking into account all the complexities and aspects of a diverse society and population. so we leave that aside.
must bring muad'dib!
i still can't believe how much the québécois conspirators still think that trump will come back soon and that it will somehow affect quebec "positively"
the new man the fascists called him.
it underscores the hypocrisy that the right can have, to imply that only the `` right-thinking '' want to impose their ideas ... while trying to ban abortion, gay marriage and other stuff in same time (especially in the usa).
\ #pasmondictator
[deleted]
hahahahaha i love it
i think things are going very well in north korea myself. everyone is always smiling and adores their political leader so much that they all "voluntarily" have a frame of their own in their house!
in practice, a despot must always defend his hold on power and an enlightened despot cannot do this unless he resorts to violence or prostitutes himself. from the moment he takes any action in this direction, the meaning of enlightened despot becomes null because he persecutes a group of people or because he must be accountable to others. i do not believe that a despot that will never be challenged can exist.
on a besoin of lucius quinctius cincinnatus en gros
theoretically the best as long as you are not in a minority or in disagreement with the leader.
[who is it that call for muad'dib? help us, muad'dib! muadib's words are the wind. they vanish... like water on the sand.](
they said they were going to put quebec on hiatus for 28 months, right?
>lucius cincinnatus
* cincinnatus, as dictator, justifies the assassination as necessary to restore the situation before abdicating once the crisis is under control *
ish ... we're starting to come close to duhaime's concept of euthanasia.
can not remember if it was 28 days, weeks, months or years.
but how good portuguese tartlets are
this is the challenge a mandate!
i claim that nathalie normandeau eats a tankard and chokes
thank you very much "jordan stop" beautiful justice from bs
since this is where it costs us less to let them dip into the fund than to try to fix the problem. it says a lot about the extent of the corruption here.
is she, not capable! worse i still can't believe that she has a microphone at 98.5 as if nothing had happened ... fine, the upac shit in the shovel with its file mounted all wrong but it is impossible that she knew nothing at all. esti de plq de mange marde du criss, with charest claiming a couple of millions for him with .... it makes you want to sharpen knives, because a good steak cut properly, it helps to pass the want to shit that this news gives me ...
she has a forehead hug! but who does she think she is? the queen of shaba?
it is almost to believe that upac and the jordan judgment are a system put together to make sure that no bandit is charged.
edit: and as a bonus the bandits can try to grease their paws once the charges have fallen
theft of public funds is just a drug, the same. she should already be happy not to be in prison, just to me.
she should assume what she claims: money from taxpayers, she claims 2.5 million of her. i don't like when they talk about claiming from the prosecutor or quebec state, its just amounts to saying that she wants the money from the taxpayer but dare not say it directly.
lol the worst is that she will surely have an amount of $$
we are the ones who are going to pay ???
siphons public funds as elected for her own interests. subsequently siphons public funds for its own interests. should we be surprised? it is quite consistent.
if it's to stop him doing the radio!
ok but can she choke more towards the end of the meal? otherwise it's plans for her to get by with just a bumper of mard ...
justice of the rich *
the justice of bs is to cut your $ 50 check because you made $ 20 during the month.
i like the picture lol
either that or we have literally incompetent investigators in quebec ... the two options are no better
it is almost on view that it will not be very hard to prove that the action of the investigators was indeed not correct. whether she's innocent or not changes nothing in the process.
yep… because you can be sure that she will win something $$$$$$
wait, when we say eat a tank of mustard, it is a normal tank filled with mustard, not a tank literally made in mustard.
right?
but otherwise yes, she finishes eating before choking please.
all you have to do is have any interaction with the police, courts, tax authorities, etc. to begin to understand its significance. the whole system exists primarily to perpetuate power structures.
foolishness.
but it still made me realize that translating * québécois * as an adjective into english sounds a bit weird. * my québécois friend * that sounds good.
* my quebecker friend * it doesn't flow very well. * my friend from quebec * doesn't translate the intent of the sentence into french either.
to make a slogan they probably decided to simplify it with * my friend * only.
addition:
out of curiosity i went to see this thread on r / canada and obviously the * first * comment is from someone who feels the need to express how much they hate us.
>i'm bilingual but quebec genuinely makes me hate the french language. nothing they do inspires me to communicate in french or consume french content.
quebec: “but why do anglophones not identify with quebec? "
also quebec: “québécois does not apply to people who speak english. "
it is because if you call black quebecois in english you have just given a second reason for english to be racist towards them. it goes against the spirit of the ad a bit. / s
as an english speaker, i would always say "my quebecois friends". it sounds more normal than quebecers.
but at the same time, i don't care about these anti-racist ads.
absolument d'accord. in english quebecois­­ > quebecers >>>> quebeckers.
you're 11 days late. congratulation.
even so special that a school board is gathered with so much power over a building as well ... that said, the project seems to have been well studied and if demolition is really the only remedy, so be it.
> the humor ~~ quebecois ~~ has changed a lot over time.
big contrast with the sketch “cowboys and indians” by arnaud soly which has just been published on the sub.
wow quite a dancer mr. brathwaite!
i am mentally ill, so i dare:
i still find it funny.
your parents were less stuck than the rest of you.
on my cell phone data, are you nigger-black denouncing police violence against blacks?
and if so, is the difference that we want to point out that we still have police violence against blacks but that we no longer have committed humor?
it's normal that humor has evolved, but my only problem with quebec humor is that the majority of comedians now go through the school of humor and that makes them all the same. comedians still touch sensitive subjects but i believe that television is much colder in presenting this kind of sketch. the kind of sketch you posted would surely have had plenty of complaints today and the networks don't like it.
we cancel pérusse!
i'm more offended by the massacre of barbara's beautiful song.
[zozos complaining that their teacher says a word that is absolutely harmless in this academic context when they see this skit.] (
boomers: humor has changed a lot!
also boomers: young people want to be able to work, in my time ....
what does not change is that françois perusse has never been funny.
for real!? but in this post i made specific mention of quebec so yes quebec humor.
quite a [singer] ( too!
it's not illness, it's being able to laugh without taboos.
you have to wonder, are you the new generation causing this or the old one who is getting old and getting cranky. it always makes me laugh when you point out the new generations because it is the old one who raised them.
we got stuck tight. tight in christmas
i certainly don't call it being stuck. we don't have to find everything funny, do we? we have the right to dislike certain disparaging words or jokes.
no, it's just a parody of marie carmen's "black eagle". honestly not that funny apart from the choreography.
the denis drolets went through the school of humor. i don't see much that or looks like them. i don't think that's the main reason tonight.
fortunately, these people will be able to turn to the mifi program for francization. less expensive too.
it's a shame that mcgill is closing this program because it is generally really appreciated by newcomers / immigrants who want to learn french intensively. to get to know these people every day, they are really interested in french and really want to learn.
am i surprised? no. am i disappointed. for sure.
c’est simple, speak white
and we just invested $ 700m of our taxes in this establishment ... search me why
falardeau could hate this establishment and what it represents for quebec
unfortunately i am not surprised.
think 2 seconds. at this point it is 100% certain that they are doing it on purpose. you can't be so incompetent / ignorant, it's impossible. it's provocation, that's it.
it's absurd. i can't find the francization classes on the south shore - i was born in british columbia so i'm not eligible for mifi classes, and school board classes are still full. it is clear that there is a lot of demand for fsl courses, but mcgill decides to close them ?!
scandalous
> the dean explains that an external firm has evaluated 49 programs with criteria such as student recruitment and strategic alignment with the priorities of the university and the school.
i imagine pr services weren't included because they couldn't have done it in a worse way
it's a shame, i know a lot of students there who are looking to take more courses in french (namely that there are not only french language courses but also culture, qc cinema, literature and even political!) but they cannot because the courses are all full. my girlfriend who comes from bc was refused french learning lessons because there were not enough places
in part pck the fees are lower (because even internationals and canadians pay the qc tuition on course credits taught in french) but also pck there is a desire to stay in qc and in canada at large and that fr is an almost essential asset in my specialty (sciencespo & dev intl). speaking of fees, some courses taught in french (therefore vie politique quebecoise and political parties / electoral behaviors in qc) do not have reduced fees. in addition, the course is taught in french but the slides are in english so that everyone has a necessary knowledge of the language!
in my time, mcgill was an english university.
> fortunately, these people will be able to turn to the mifi program for francization. less expensive too.
unfortunately the mifi program is not available to people born in canada. it works for immigrants, yes, but professionals who come from another province cannot take it.
the caq promised to create fsl courses for people who were born in canada for this fall, but that did not happen.
world-class education at a historic english university
indeed. there are other programs offered for business professionals on the other hand, but the price falls.
but at least it exists.
you reverse cause and effect. we didn't invest money because mcgill offers world-class education, mcgill offers world-class education because we invest money in them.
where does "historically english" fit in this chicken and egg argument?
in "we chalice it."
flair checks
the university of sherbrooke offers co-op courses that allow you to do paid internships. i got away with less than 10k in debt 👍
i pay for my studies with my scholarships, i invest my loans and i work to pay my ongoing fees. i will come out with a lot more money, ie the profit on the loans, than what i got back to uni!
study 5 years at university, 1 year in biology, 2 years in bioinformatics, 2 years in computer science. i have a rather atypical background.
as i had great difficulty in cegep and university and my family did not make so much money, i made the choice to work only during the summers and to live exclusively on loans and bursaries during the school years. . in the end i accumulated a loan debt of about $ 50,000. it is relatively high because i studied for 5 years and eventually you receive less scholarship and more loans after a certain number of sessions.
it's still relatively low as debt because the interest is low (~ 4%) and the interest you pay on the loan is tax deductible.
living with roommates, not having a car and being careful about what i ate and minimizing going out, it cost me about 10 or 12k per year to live.
i did not do it personally because i had the chance to stay with my parents during my studies but the people with whom i graduated who did apart + loan and scholarships came out between $ 20,000 @ $ 35,000. it's been 12 years since i graduated so i imagine it must have gone up a bit since then. good luck!!!
4 years, electrical engineering at polytechnique montreal. no access to student loans for the first 3 years (family income too high, even though i paid myself and my parents had moved to qc). i got away with no real student debt. worked the children during the session (4-6 p.m.), 40-60 hours during the summer. bigger problem at poly is that the internship service is crap, if you have no contacts, very difficult to get an internship (i had only one, summer 3rd year), but if you get an internship you have quite a bit of your salary for the year. 4th year you are eligible full loan and scholarship and it's easy shit ...
oh to specify: i was in a shared apartment next to poly (3 in a large 5 1/2), didn't even need to pay for public transport, i walked everywhere.
it all depends on where you live op. in my case i was still living with my parents so i had the luxury of working in the summer and the rest of the year to focus on my studies. 0 debts on leaving.
what is expensive is not really the tuition fees but everything in between. fair accommodation and transportation are much more expensive than the university itself. and it will therefore be quite variable depending on the possibilities and choices of each. it will not be the same if we stay with our parents and travel by bus as if we buy a condo and a new car, with everything you can imagine between these two extremes. it's up to everyone to make their choices according to their budget and personal situation.
if we want to reduce costs, we can also look at student residences. you can also save on transportation as they are often close enough to campus to travel on foot. but hey, you still have to be tough to do 3 years in residence! the rooms are small and at one point we get tired of showers, toilets, shared kitchens and other shared spaces…
2 years of cegep, 3 years of bachelor's degree in science, 2 years of master's degree (paid at around 18k / year), 1 year of paid internship (30k in 2008-2009). i have always lived in housing, always in a roommate so that it costs less. i have always worked in the summers and a little during the sessions. my father had his business and did not pay himself a salary, which helped me with loans and grants because it is the parents' personal income that is taken into account. i ended up with around 25k in loans to repay in 2012. no real help from my parents in money, more in kind (furniture, food ...). i always had a car while i was a student (i'm from the countryside).
i studied computer science for 3 years at university. i lived in an apartment with my girlfriend at the time.
i had already found myself a full time programmer position so i finished my studies with 15k savings.
[deleted]
4 years in engineering at laval university. summer internships, for my bac at least, paid really well ($ 12-15k / summer). most of the people in my cohort had no debt, especially those with a little help from their parents. in quebec, if you're careful, you should be able to get by with less than $ 18k / year.
bac + master's degree, i ended up with 16k of debt. but i had 2 merit scholarships and i worked 20-25 hours a week throughout my studies, otherwise i would have been much more in debt than that. i was 100% burnt at the end of my 7 year journey. if you have a good relationship with your parents and can stay with them for a few years at the start of your studies, i highly recommend it.
i studied 4 years in engineering (it) in montreal at éts and i left debt-free.
i arrived at university with a $ 10,000 cushion that i had accumulated while working during college.
i am not from the region so i was in residences. one of the advantages of residences is that they will terminate your lease if you do an internship outside the montreal region. in addition, they guarantee you a place when you return.
you have to do 3 mandatory paid 4-month internships and the average salary is $ 13,600 to $ 16,200 for a 4-month internship. (the internship department is excellent and employers are snapping up students at this university)
source: 
exit veterinary medicine with $ 20k in debt, with very cooperative parents helping me at least $ 20k per year
edit: i did an organic bac before the med vet
same for me. and most of the students come from outside sherbrooke, which means that everyone has to make a new circle of contacts.
it has been a fun 4.5 years that i would start again tomorrow morning.
well done! what are you studying?
woaw congratulations! i think everyone would like to come out like you!
indeed an atypical course! congratulations on having succeeded :)
do you think your 50k debt is average or higher than average debt? and then what profession do you practice today?
thank you!
too bad for the internships .. thank you!
ah, eric duhaime ...
eric duhaime's worst opponent!
please stop giving this fool a platform. this is how donald trump was elected ...
the tweet dates from the beginning of november and is it already contradicting itself?
and are there a lot of people who want to vote for that?
there is no investigation to confirm that this is euthanasia, so it's too early to tell, but an investigation is needed and that may be the conclusion. you really have to lack the will to think that there is a contradiction.
i didn't know we had created a r / trumpcriticizestrump-style sub for duhaime. it's excellent
he is more or less publicized since he no longer has his radio show. seems that being a trash radio host is better at infiltrating people than having a useless mini party.
he is a real crisse of grapes
so… .. need to be investigated in your opinion? or is it a bad idea too?
so last year was too early and now is the time? where is the problem?
you prefer the one opposite who always says "no we won't do that ^^ not ^^ for ^^ the moment" while he gets ready to do it 2 months later
if this is not a shitpost i do not see what is a shitpost
or our best friend, it depends how we see him.
nothing like a good politician who turns his jacket over to give us confidence!
politicians are missing right now who change their minds ...
i'm not sure what's the best between that and a guy who talks about the nordics to overshadow a commission of inquiry that sheds light on their negligence?
both legault and duhaime make big disgusting populism to gain popularity.
the higher it goes, the more it will divide the votes of caq voters, just enough to block the caq in volatile ridings.
[even in his post which links to the article in question] ( i noticed it afterwards.
you already know the answer to your question.
there is always a tweet!
thank you for being completely missing the point.
éric duhaime on social networks: euthanasie !!!
éric duhaime in the newspaper: bin no, we must not talk about euthanasia.
i do not see where you see "last year", because here we are talking about a difference of 14 days.
phew.
i can respect political opinions different from mine (it all depends on what we are talking about), but eric duhaime is not the makings of a great head of state.
look, when you're such a good guy that you put your friends' lives in danger as well as everyone else on the road. asti that i'm sick of these kinds of characters, i find it very hard to sympathize.
i corrected the title for vat:
"victim of his bad relationship with cars and speed".
tragic to die at 19.
if you really have a passion for cars and speed, go on a closed course.
roads are not race tracks.
a speed lover with a troubled soul
someone less on the road who won't kill innocent people for a 30 second adrenaline rush.
article vat emptying garbage cans
does that annoy me the titles which are written passively "victim of his passion ..." no he is not a victim of his passion, he is a dangerous esti of stupid fool without any consideration. is killed. he has acted in full awareness, he is not the victim of a tragic accident. the victim is her boyfriend who collects himself at the hospital and who has to live with this trauma all his life.
here are the consequences of my own actions
i think it's pretty much confirmed. when you mow two poles while making barrels, you must roll in tabarnak.
that will teach him!
"victim"...
its approaching a leopardatemyface with its choice to ride the same ...
yeah, it's still like ghandi killed himself.
driving like a moron at the risk of * other people's * lives * disqualifies you from being * a good guy *.
it's simple, me, i do not sympathize with everything.
\> tribute
it is expected that a tribute will be paid to samuel later this week.
do you bet that ironically, the tribute will be his friends who block a street to do burnouts ??
"victim" ... not sure if we will use that word the next time a drunkard mows down a family.
at least he left on his own.
thank you, that's much better.
we wouldn't write "victim of his passion for crack and coke"
why does tva think their title is acceptable?
maybe, but a public emergency like that isn't a big loss.
darwin award tbh
i had a loss of control in the winter when i was young ... like 18-20 years old. worse, i was not driving fast like 50 in a zone of 70, the conditions were thawed i rolled over and then a pole stopped me, and i can tell you that a pole creaks dry.
worse, the post had nothing, scratches
faced for it to take 2 poles to stop a car, you have to drive sick.
i sympathize with those who loved him.
you just need to come to gatineau to see the anglophone future that is coming to quebec. in 50 years from now, i wouldn't be surprised if quebec was 50-50 franco anglo.
do i find it worse to hear tabeurrenak or tabèèrnacle! so respect my language!
are you someone who asked young people what they want?
if it comes from montreal, it's sure who knows what's going on in the rest of quebec.
surely the tourtiere and hubert. a treat. 1
>	by j.j. mccullough
that says a lot.
well they can try!
because you have no common culture, no history and no unique distinct language that define the features of a nation.
i am saskatchewannais (french-speaking métis), and scott moe makes me ashamed to live here. there is no reason why saskatchewan should be considered a “nation within a nation”. sorry, but there is no distinct culture or identity here. we first nations and métis have our own cultures, languages, and histories. if there was anyone who deserved the status of a separate nation, it was the natives, not the oil enthusiasts.
the only things that are distinct among the provinces for saskatchewan are the absence of hills and mountains, the rectangular size of the province, the [frequency of drunk driving on highways] ( / /www.cbc.ca/news/canada/saskatchewan/sask-s-history-with-impaired-driving-tightened-penalties-lessons-learned-1.5754066), [provincial homicide rate] ( // thestarphoenix .com / news / local-news / saskatoon-fourth-in-big-city-crime-severity-index-in-2020), and the fact that we have [the most racist police forces in the country] ( / /www.macleans.ca/news/canada/new-light-on-saskatoons-starlight-tours/).
aweille saskatchewan ostie continues comm ço
to be a nation, you must have the slightest distinguishing feature of your neighbors in manitoba, alebertan, etc. no language of its own, no particular culture, no nation. though luck my cowboy.
balkanization!
for once i agree with jj. i would be happy to help saskatchewan emancipate itself from ottawa. in politics, you have to know not to hold a grudge.
not even game!
what's unique to saskatchewan? getting a dui on a rural road? voting differently from eastern canada? what a shitstain of a person jj mccullough is.
just all 3 chords are more cultural than saskatchewan as a whole ....
saaaaaaskaaaaaaatchewaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaan !
i thought this was posted on r/canada at first and thought “what an intentionally misleading dogshit article that must’ve been written by an out of touch american” then go to the bottom and saw jj’s name and it all made sense
as a great philosopher would say: "go ahead, make my day!"
hahaha
the fact that he's the one who wrote that doesn't surprise me at all. i see he is still obsessed with "kwah-beq" and "kwah-beqors".
jj mccullough taught in japan for 1 years without speaking the language, he remains unilingual and quebecophobic to this day.
spank it in ...
this guy is really a lot of shit. he played it smart by limiting his influence on social media, which gives him a more professional air, but his editorial content is in the same class as the right-wing polemic found everywhere on the internet.
you stopped reading in the same place as me haha.
a defining feature might be that they are the only ones who can remember how to spell saskatchewan properly?
dude you're not even a good troll, you could at least force yourself a little more than that ...
lol. 
r / quebec in r / antiwork mode for a few days.
and it's not a compliment
i don't know if you're serious ... it says a little about me ... it says a lot about the sub.
criss that i hope you're kidding, $ 30 / hr, 20 dollar milk.
i do not consider myself as a light but tabarouette that there are some who do not understand inflation ...
honestly, the minimum wage should be much higher. 30 an hour is not even enough to adequately accommodate a family of 7 on the island of montreal. and we'll come back for entertainment ... do you know how much an rtx 3090 costs? you can't afford that with 30 an hour.
i think $ 33.68 would be fairer
oh yeah. and why not at $ 100 an hour.
i have never downvoted a post so quickly.
enough.
oh yes? however, i rather think that this post on r / quebec is going to be popular. you will do good karma! an obvious exaggeration from my point of view with a ridiculous example. i imagine your next post is going to be a personal finance caricature that i'm going to tell you to go to starbucks more. this subreddit is an echo chamber of montrealers who vote qs. ” :)
i didn't think r / quebec was a right-wing pro bosses sub. really disappointed with the comments to date.
there is a big gap between / r / quebec and real life when it comes to work and wages. this sub is completely disconnected from reality and the world of work. i suspect a large proportion of the people here are in school or on welfare.
i am even surprised when i see qs and the ndp come out first in the polls of voting intentions that are posted here.
just print more money!!!!!
its normal price (msrp) is around $ 1600-1800, right? it is possible to buy it with less than 60k / year, if you save a little.
or $ 9,000,000 an hour like jeff bezos. 90,000x the $ 100 / hr you offer.
bad troll is bad
like everywhere, there are fish eaters and ass lickers.
if you give a student at a convenience store $ 30 an hour imagine how much those who are qualified and have years of study in fields other than the soft sciences are going to ask! lol
i will ask for at least 80!
don't forget that we have a nice rich it win here, not to mention those who make a fortune in crypto / s
well there are still some things that i agree with the sub:
* ceos who earn tens of millions of dollars, if not hundreds while their [employees starve] ( and that wages do not increase
* the rich have never been so rich and social inequalities are growing
* housing is becoming increasingly unaffordable
* the work culture in the united states is far too intense: hardly any leave, 40-60h per week on average, no maternity leave for mothers, etc. france does better in terms of productivity with many more benefits to employees
* amazon delivery men who have to piss in bottles for fear of being reprimanded by their bosses
[deleted]
excerpt from the article including solutions:
"the real challenge is to optimize the working time of doctors, to improve their efficiency and their productivity. for this, we must" strip "them of all the tasks that can be done by other health professionals. a doctor recently said that 40% of the acts he performs could be delegated.
a trivial example: why does a chronically ill person have to see their doctor to renew their prescriptions? the pharmacist is quite capable of this.
why cannot a psychologist authorize a work stoppage in the event of burnout and that this be accepted? in a typical family medicine group, there are usually 1.5 nurses for every 10 doctors. why not increase the number of nurses so that doctors can focus on the cases that really require their expertise?
at the same time, we must work on other solutions such as admitting doctors from abroad more quickly, training more doctors and specialized nurses, etc. not easy to make a mammoth agile! "
i really have a question about the family doctor system.
why would the majority of the population need one? i understand that it is beneficial for those who have a chronic disease, but for the rest what is it?
i speak from personal experience, but when i went to see my doctor it was for infection, injury, abnormal pain etc. any doctor would have solved my problem, but i had to make an appointment with my family doctor who often had a 2 week wait. this family doctor recently retired and that leaves 3,000 people without family doctors.
i have people in my family who have to go see a doctor and it's a nightmare to have an appointment in a walk-in clinic. how ironic it is to make an appointment at a walk-in clinic.
in short, it may be just me who does not see the general interest of family physicians. that's why i'm asking the question here.
the bottleneck should perhaps be immediately removed from the training of doctors, so that there are more of them coming out of universities each year.
i would like to add some nuances as a professional studying to become a specialist nurse practitioner. certain acts must be delegated, indeed. should the pharmacist be able to renew medications? if nothing has changed in the patient's situation, i think so. otherwise, the patient must be referred to md or ips and the reason for this is competence in the assessment of the health condition, which is the preserve of nurses and doctors. this is to say that we must be careful about what we delegate to respect the fields of competence of each profession, which each have their place in the health system.
currently, the biggest obstacle to delegation is in my opinion the remuneration of doctors and this is normal. if we were in their shoes, we would not like to be told that we are going to lose a large percentage of our compensation. we must therefore migrate from the fee-for-service system to a mixed remuneration system depending on the position held. it is negotiated between the doctors' unions and the government, but like any union negotiation, it takes a long time.
> why does a person suffering from a chronic disease have to see their doctor to renew their prescriptions?
excellent question.
i have an excellent pharmacist. it has been several times in the last ten years that he contacted my doctor (and once my dentist for an abscess that went badly at the start of confinement) to change the prescription because the dosage is not optimal or that there would be a better medicine for my problem.
but in terms of renewing the prescription that i have been taking for almost fifteen years, at the same dosage, well i absolutely have to go through my doctor ... every three months.
the problem is that she could easily give me one-year prescriptions or just agree to renew by fax from the pharmacy, but no, she's the one who prefers that i go for a full consultation and that i take the place of someone else who probably needs to see her more than i do.
at this point, i am starting to have a lot of difficulty not concluding that it is because it pays to charge a full consultation with the ramq just to give your patient a piece of paper.
i therefore deduce, in a rather cynical way, that it is clearly not all the doctors who are ready to let go of the easier work towards the other professions of health.
many other professionals ask just that to be able to do these tasks. some that we could but which are not given to us at the moment, others which would be possible if the collective prescriptions finally came down.
a family doctor is not necessary as long as you do not have a chronic condition and do not need to be screened. lots of young men like you don't need a family doctor. it's different for women because of contraception.
the problem with our system is that the family doctor is the gateway to the system for long-term follow-up. what do you do in your case if a walk-in doctor finds you have diabetes following a one-off visit? you will not have a family md for long-term follow-up. you will therefore wander in the walk-in rooms or wait to be taken care of by a specialist doctor for a condition that does not require specialist care.
people must therefore find a family doctor even if it is not necessary in order to have an option available when it becomes available.
because prevention costs much less than cure. a family doctor makes it possible to have a health check-up at regular intervals, and thus to see trends or deviations that may suggest a problem, which can then be treated earlier, with a better chance of recovery.
it's beautiful on paper, but hospitals are saturated with medical students ...
fun fact: fee-for-service was introduced in the days of the liberals, who have the highest proportion of physicians of any party. they had to negotiate "fiercely".
> i therefore deduce, in a rather cynical way, that it is clearly not all the doctors who are ready to let go of the easier work towards the other professions of health.
it's true and them, will have to force them, but as a professional who works every day with doctors, it irritates me sometimes to see how journalists demonize doctors and their income. the vast majority of the doctors i work with love what they do and would not hesitate to make sacrifices to preserve the system if it was necessary, but the truth is, you have to stop asking. sacrifices to professionals. we are already doing so much on a voluntary basis, why is the government stubbornly refusing to change the system which has already shown very clear signs that it must be changed?
the pharmacist can already renew your medication that you take on a regular basis, for 12 months.
[opq here] ( /)
why doesn't he do it?
there are openings in the law, but other professions do not always want to take them. sometimes because it is necessary to follow up blood tests, sometimes because they do not want to take responsibility and surely for other reasons ...
edit: syntax
when writing my comment, i completely forgot about the prevention aspect. i am 100% that we should prioritize prevention.
on the other hand, is it common to have regular check-ups for those who have a family doctor? because with the one i had before that is not the case. he wasn't encouraging it, i would only go see him when i needed to. besides, i don't even think he would have had the time to see all his patients regularly ...
in short, i agree that ideally everyone should have a health check-up at least once a year, but i think we are far from having that.
nice theory, but unfortunately not the reality at all
i don't have the cochrane study in hand there, but routine / annual checkups are unnecessary in healthy people regarding the risk of death. they often only reveal false positives which paradoxically generate costs for society.
for example, a 45-year-old man doing a routine check-up. the blood count shows a little too high cholesterol. the gentleman has a normal bmi, no smoking, no diabetes, no known heart disease. her md decides to prescribe statins (a drug to control cholesterol).
did this gentleman really need these pills?
prevention and screening are cornerstones of our health care system, but we have to do it intelligently.
with the dsq, isn't any doctor who could come to the same conclusions?
not as if your doctor will recognize you among those 1000 patients if you don't see him on a regular basis.
so the bottleneck is the availability of places in residence?
lol nobody is surprised by that, but now we have to change and for the benefit of the people without penalizing doctors.
totally agree with you. the two doctors i had before her were pearls. the first retired 5-10 years ago, he had done 10 years of 'médecins sans frontières' and the second left the private clinic to go to a chsld at the height of the pandemic. two very tall humans as well as me.
in fact, that's a bit of the problem i think, medicine is an area that takes conviction and a desire for sacrifice, but since we lack docs, we must also take those who are right there because that it pays. worse finally, my new doctor is perhaps more there for the money, but remains that it is there anyway and it is better than the opposite.
thanks for the information.
> why doesn't he do it?
good question especially since he is aware of my renewal problems. it is severe anxiety disorders that i have faults that often happen to me to fuck my dates.
he is not a proprio pharmacist, he works for a couple of pharmacists. maybe he doesn't want it, maybe they don't… he never offered it to me anyway. he still helps me out often, however, while i see my doc. i know it is a more controlled drug although i never understood why. maybe he can not for all types of drugs?
buy them all and keep them in a safe place away from the elements.
if you have a safe ... even better.
one day, it will be worth o ... ignion
this is for people who shop at manteaux manteaux et jeans jeans.
the worst part is that with the changes to the grammar the two words are ~~ correct ~~. if i remember correctly.
edit: eh-bin not.
bin what? i don't understand her
people, you don't understand! `` onion '' is the english word for `` onion '', that is, the first word is for english, and the second line `` onion '' is for french, as below in small character you read "soup and recipe mix" in english, followed by "mixture for soup and recipes" in french on the second line 🙂
“onion” in english and “à l'oignon” in french. rather, it is to determine the flavor of the mixture
onion onion
my quintessential chinese fondue broth. it might not be as good as canton broth or a complicated recipe with red wine and worcestershire, but it costs a few cents and the fondue takes a few minutes to prepare.
huh can you send a cat?
ayoye! hello breath !!
the worst is that metro is a quebec company ...
oh nyon, i haven't bought any. :(
or mantos coats and jins jeans to accommodate spelling simplification
no, the two accepted spellings are onion and onion. * onion * is strictly english.
lol, what you see is english followed by french
onion (soup)  
(soup) with onion
it's just a bad design
a gnognon au gnognon (?)
i recommend the vh chinese fondue broth in a sachet. the best in my opinion!
oh no, ognon is always going to be a nenon. here, it's onion.
you teach me a good one!
i know, that was not the point of my comment ...
an egyptian who immigrated to quebec, big fan of bills and who supports his muslim cousin in palestine?
it is for example all roommates who each put a flag, i find it hot!
palestinian, buffalo, egypt and quebec bills flags; curious mixture, indeed.
jean airoldi would give you a ticket for that.
in wanting to fight on all fronts, we let our guard down and give way to attacks. so ... fuck the bills! i never got over the days of the lost 4 finals.
hey, no matter the exact mysterious circumstances behind the combo, there's our flag without the canada flag. faque i support :)
multiculturalism in a nutshell hehe :)
it is insulting, disgusting, degrading.
i refuse to see this tea towel near my fleurdelisé!
** ... the buffalo bills ??? **
/s
it's just a joke; for years i was a fan of the raiders who we hear moved more often than won championships!
nice, but the only bill who wins in buffalo is bill belichick
the palestinian flag does not necessarily mean that someone in this house is palestinian, it is possibly a simple sign of support for the palestinian cause.
*friends* 2.0
there are just the bills that did not fit with a muslim qs voter
or...
a quebecer who immigrated to palestine, a big fan of the egyptians and who supports his cousin bills in buffalo?
lots of palestinian christians too, by the way.
exactly what i thought
certainly the best explanation. let's stop looking!
yeah i don't find it so weird!
people seem surprised that there are immigrants from quebec or immigrant parents haha
there must be some very interesting discussions in this house
this is the most probable and the funniest hypothesis. i would like to have a coffee with this gang there!
palestinian parent, egyptian parent who immigrated to quebec, son is from quebec and he loves the buffalo bills.
these st-hub pies have always existed, haven't they?
tourtiere snobbery is bs en caliss
[chronique of anne-marie beaudoin-bégin \ (the insolent linguist \) which is relevant] ( -meat).
too long not listened to: the word "tourtière" has nothing to do with the bird (the pie) etymologically, the word has always referred to several dishes whose common point is basically meat in a dough , and is much older than the “lake tourtière”, so a lake tourtière is no more a tourtière than a “meat pie”.
is it just me that my grandmother's meat pie, that is exactly that, minced meat in a pie crust?
oh no, not st hub's potato lard pie!
chef michel has decided to settle the tourtière debate once and for all by saying "you are all wrong" and by making a recipe that is neither a meat pie nor a tourtière from lac-saint-jean .
we won't start taking lessons in naming things from people who say a fry and the bus.
it's always funny to see the world of a region that was colonized after the creation of this tourtiere saying that it is not tourtiere.
are you also at war with cheesecake because to get the name cake, it should be made from flour?
so what i take away from all of this is that tourtière is like chocolatine for quebec?
i'm just going to mention to the triggered folks that i'm going to call both the st-hub frozen and their century-old lake tourtiere "tourtiere", no matter what they think.
when i was young, my family took a 6-hour drive to celebrate christmas at the lake with my mother's very large family (14 children, that makes a lot of people!). so i would never call a meat pie a tourtière.
for those who don't know:
* meat pie: minced meat cooked separately and put in a pie
* tourtière: cubes of different meats (poultry, pork, beef, veal, game meat) and potatoes put in a large abacus of cubic dough, soaked in broth and cooked for half a day in an oven until the broth is completely reduced.
the difference is obvious when you have tasted both.
i present to you the gascogne tourtière which predates all those in quebec.
somewhere on the internet in a subreddit in the landes, gascons smoke at the idea that people from the lake dare to massacre the name of “tourtière” with their creation with multiple bizarre meats.
question from someone recently arrived in montreal: where to find good pies?
what is the problem...?
`well ketchup, we can see that.
ngl i low-key eat these. they're my jam crisse.
so to make everyone agree, a tourtière is the dish with a high edge in which we make the pies, which is a tart, salty or sweet, with a dough on top.
meat paté> tourtière.
i am in ontario (we have that in the grocery store) and i find it correct with a good squirt of ketchup: d.
it's so salty that we should de-ice the streets with it.
> **i know quebec to have a deep history with the catholic church. so, can someone please explain to me how a province with a long history of catholicism is so strongly opposed to its influence in governance? or if my question flawed in some way, please correct me.**
that long history is exactly the reason why people here are opposed to it's influence. the influence was overwhelmingly negative and harmful to the people, and the church straight up colluded with the government to fuck people over (to better serve their own interests).
the long history of catholicism *is* the reason why quebecers are so vehemently anti-religion. religious oppression (for lack of a better word) led to a rejection of religion.
long story short : religious organization did bad. now people don't believe in those myths anymore and don't want anything to do with them.
the catholic church was under a constitutional contract with britain to keep us uneducated and poor ("rich people go to hell, poor people go to heaven"), so the british could control the economy, leaving us only crumbs.
after we ditched religion, our standard of life increased tenfold.
any other questions?
you have to distinguish between religious catholicism and political catholicism.  for a long time, québec functioned under a system of political catholicism, by which the catholic church held enormous political power.  it had *de facto* taxation authority, especially through its administration of schools and various other social and welfare programs, controlled access to higher education and the social and economic opportunities associated to it, and went as far as to take sides in elections and threaten political dissidents with excommunication.  in most towns the local priest was a more powerful and influential figure than the mayor, and the church didn’t hesitate to use this influence in almost every aspect of a person’s life.  for one example: it wasn’t uncommon for a priest to check in with a young married woman who hadn’t had children - or hadn’t had children in a while - to ask whether she was engaging in her wifely duties in a properly catholic way (i.e. regularly having sex with her husband without use of contraceptives in order to make as many children as possible) and admonish her - sometimes publicly! - if she wasn’t.  it was bad, and working hand-in-hand with the duplessiste governments of the time, held back québec and most french canadians for generations.
modern québec society is largely the result of a *rejection* of this political catholicism.  huge efforts were made to curb the catholic church’s power and influence, and to a certain extent this process isn’t entirely complete.  the place catholicism holds in our culture is still uneasy and a source of tension, with many wanting both the nostalgia of the catholic heritage without any of the political catholicism or its associated backwards social organization.  this leads to a lot of contradictions, like the government spending billions on maintaining old catholic buildings (with the slogan “our patrimony is sacred”) while also rejecting individual religious symbols in “persons of authority” (which, according to the government, includes school teachers) to avoid any appearance of religious influence over civil society.
it’s complicated, and really understanding this is a big part of understanding modern québec.
women where severely oppressed under the religious rules and feminism grew to a very high point in the 60's.
see : [
[
[
all in french but google translate should work for the main idea.
because religion in a state is a horrible cancer that poison the whole society. we lived through it, we know how badly it can go and how impossible it is to get rid of it. it tooks us 60 years since the moment we started the process (1960) to when we voted a law that declare québec as a "laïque" state. 
and even today, you see people oppose the process, thinking that religion in a state is a good thing. it's not, it's probably the worst thing that can happen in a free and democratic society.
the real question is why any citizen (religious or not) would think any religious influence (catholic or other) on governance is desirable?
1. jesuit utopia. history of top down rulership, where your status in the church gave you power, and rules went as far as into a persons bedroom or beliefs. my mother in law is the 21 child because if this. 2. no contrast/alternative/competition. people could not vote with their feet as in the rest of the western world, so few ways for the local churches to revise themselves better. they got stuck in the past. 3. the modern world and educational reform. people found new freedoms, credit cards, women working, voting, condoms. the quebec catholic church was against these things. 4. atrocities. a system that non-parents exclusively took care of underprivileged children created an underlying fear of the establishment. it was no baptist church around here. the local bishop could lock you up, judge you, take away your kids, send them to a rape-prone school, refuse your soul to heaven, and you could do nothing.
you already have your answer, who's better to understand the danger of religious intervention than someone who just left long standing toxic relation with a religious organization.
super interesting comments here.  i was brought up an english catholic but my mother’s side is french.  these stories of church oppression are not foreign to me at all.  my mother’s family grew up hungry and dirt poor but there was an expectation every sunday to put money in the collection plate.  i’ve heard countless stories of women threatened with excommunication and have my own family story that resulted in a priest being kicked out of an icu for derogatory statements.
i fell into the catholic spell for a while once i had kids, had all of them baptized, was putting them through the cathecism and then one of my kids came out as trans.  the worst critics of all in my family were the highly religious (all on my english father’s side including a family member who’s a priest).  the most supportive people were all on my french mom’s side also including a catholic priest.  my conversations with french and english clergy were also vastly different.  the french churches are now way more progressive here than the english catholic churches because that’s what the french quebec people demand of them.
i totally understand where french quebecers are coming from by wanting to keep church and state separate.  there have been so many examples of abuse of power that we cannot let it happen again.
have you ever read the bible? have you ever had to fully submit to clergy that nothing held in check? that's why. we eventually decided that enough was enough with the toxicity and abuse and pretty much just gave the church the finger. religion should be strictly 18+ imo.
the church was a disease until the 1960ish.
they controlled everything from schools (with all the child diddling that comes with it) to hospitals. they told people who to vote for, how many babies to have.. they colluded with the government and english owned businesses to keep the french populace docile and underpaid. they ran orphanages and residential schools for native and french kids where abuse was rampant. alongside the government, they presided over a culture of book burning and censorship.
also, people in quebec have generally very liberal values. those tend to be incompatible with church values. 
hence, except the older generations (born before 40s-50s) and immigrants, people don't tend to be religious
nobody mentioned it, but i believe the main reason is education.
quebec went from poorly educated from highly educated within a single generation. this generation (the boomers) outnumbered the previous generation and decided they wanted to live their life the way they wanted to, without being told how many kids they should have, which movie they weren't allowed to watch, what kind of music they should listen to,...
it's of course much more complicated than that, but i believe it's one of the main reason.
there's many reason that other people have already stated but one of them that i think no one has specifically said is that the church is one of the big reason why women couldn't vote until 1940 when all the other provinces in canada could.
i won't repeat everyone. you got the point. i just want to point out that there is still a lot of christian who practice here and not only our grandparents. as a christian, i know many young quebecers who follow the church. those who grow with the faith and decide to stop, generaly don't bring up the historical reason, in a lot of case they just prefer to follow an easier lifestyle.
islamofascism was strong in quebec so they had to push back. they’re still deeply catholic but don’t want to give an inch to the muslim extremists ~ particularly those crazy about burkas and full face coverings. isis was a problem at the time so burkas were a convenient disguise for terrorists
wrong, crosses are permitted if they're small (i don't know anyone who would wear a huge cross anyway!). as a christian it makes me angry. seems like they're just against every other religion..
>legislation banning public servants (e.g., teachers) from wearing/displaying any religious symbols or clothing 
this was mainly to prevent the display of non-catholic symbols while keeping catholic-inherited ideas about the world (i.e. moral and ontological relaism) and catholic traditions. it's not that they dont want religious symbols, its more against muslims symbols. quebec is more *catho-laïque* than straight *laïque*.
can we really say that? forcing women to have babies until death is horrible, but the people of quebec would not be where they are right now without this forced demographic growth.
yeah make an effort, its noticed and appreciated (its.a sign of respect). dont go straight to english.
an effort is appreciated but no one's expecting you to speak great french. just learn the absolute basics (i.e hello, thank you, please, where are the bathrooms etc.) like when visiting a different country and that'll go a long way.
if english is your first language everyone will recognize your accent and will likely switch to english to accommodate you if they know it, and if you're in touristy areas, almost 100% chance they speak english (proficiency will vary ofc)
an effort is always appreciated. most people will switch to english if they see you struggle or at the very least help you out with your french. enjoy!
no need to learn (or say) more than bonjour and merci, unless you want to practice. nobody expects tourists to speak their language. upon entering a restaurant, say bonjour with your biggest accent and people will know not to continue in french and be happy that you made an effort. finishing by saying merci, will cap things nicely. it will be appreciated and you won't find yourself in the embarassing situation of having to explain you don't speak french after you struggle with "où sont les toilettes"! and the answer is total greek to you.
or just asking "do you speak english?" (québec city is not as bilingual as montréal) will do nicely too in any situation. enjoy your trip and don't over think it.
never go directly to english, often people don't speak it regularly and will need a few seconds to mentally switch mental gears. same as you if you hear one of the sentences you do know in french when you aren't paying attention. 
sometimes people don't know english. whip out google translate, it's no big deal.
be careful not to speak too fast.
the effort will mean a lot to the québécois (we are not canadians!).
we are near rue saint-jean and the saint-roch neighborhood.
saw in the comments you were in st-jean and st-roch. here are some places i would recommend.
food: l'affaire est ketchup/patente et machin, battuto (if you can get a reservation) and sardines. for a good poutine i would suggest chez gaston or ashton.
drinks: maelstrom for cocktails and cofee, noctem for beers. 
night out: mcfly is an arcade themed bar where games are free. la ninkasi is a nice place to get fucked and sing karaoke.
of course trying to speak french is appreciated! what would you do if a tourist in your city came up to you and started speaking another language? 😃 making an effort to use a bit of the language of the nation you are visiting is part of being what i call a ‘thorough tourist’ (one who is a kind, caring, and thoughtful tourist) rather than the ones who rush off the bus like a tsunami at the louvre for 30 minutes to see the mona lisa and leave. 
rates of speaking only french, being bilingual in french and english, and speaking only english vary widely depending on where you plan on going in quebec. are you in the old port of montreal, mt. tremblant, gatineau or sherbrooke? people there tend to be bilingual. are you going to val d’or, trois rivières, or saguenay? most people speak only french. pointe-claire? well…pointe-claire is known as eastern ontario for a reason. wikipedia pages for each of our cities will give you language demographic information.
and it’s a bit hard to give you recommendations if you don’t let us know the city you are going to. did you mean recommendations for quebec city? i know it’s a bit weird, but in english you would say ‘quebec city’ and in french we interchange between saying ‘ville de québec’ and ‘québec’, depending on whether or not the listener needs context to distinguish the city from the province.
learn the basic ex: hello thanks please etc and people will most likely switch instantly to english.
i went to quebec and was looking forward to speaking french, every person i interacted with approached me with english😢!
go to a iga, doesn’t matter which one and get a tourtiere by st hubert. thank me later.
thanks! we'll give it out best shot.
thanks! we're giving it a try and people have been receptive. now if we could just read the parking signs!
oh thank you, i think we're a bit embarrassed (both took french classes as children but it has been many years). but we will try!
> québec city is not as bilingual
just to note that it is still pretty bilingual, mostly with the youth.
thank you. we've both been to montreal before and it seemed everyone just spoke english - but here it has been very much french first. we are trying! people have been very accommodating and i think our instinct is to reciprocate in french bit we have no idea how.
thanks! google translate has already been a life saver
haha, staying out of this argument..
we're not ? last time i checked we were still a province of canada
could you ask again but in english?  caq is the name of the political party that been elected for quebec province. i'm not sure i get the question.
///edit///
is that what you mean?
i didn’t know that caq could ever rhyme with education. i hope it all works, good luck!
yes that's what i was referring to. i was wondering if it's possible to apply for one whilst in canada?
you did well to ask in french at the start, it's nice of you.
we love you
feasible? yes. but ... you can also stick a pineapple in your anus if you force yourself ... the problem is, that's basically a bad idea.
all the same, the caq is agile in proposing the most complicated project on all points in order to make the 3rd link undesirable in the eyes of the general public.
we could have made a 3rd link with the new bridge on île d'orléans to make a project that meets two needs of the region, but no instead we had to offer something new, risky that costs 2-3 times more expensive than a bridge.
(i am not saying that i am for or against the project).
mdr.
i like that they come out of an accident dating from 1908.
i certainly hope that our geological knowledge and our exploration techniques are much better than 100 years ago.
it's hard enough to find someone willing to pay for exploration drilling on dry land, i imagine not even in the river. there are some in the mining industry because you have no choice but to find your ore, but fuck all in the construction of infrastructure.
only if new business taxes can pay for its annual maintenance for the next 50yrs. concrete dries in 25 yrs, and is brittle in 50. that is why so much of montreal is falling apart, it was all built at the same time when montreal was financially and industrially important in north america. now there is insufficient business tax to pay for proper infrastructure repair on its own, and depends on debt and handouts. quebec has had a few financial successes, specifically with pharmaceutical, but levis is not going to become the timber exporter it was in the 17th century.  i would not invest my money in this project, would you?
undoable, to the next.
with enough willpower everything is doable ... look at the pyramids. but hey, the harder it is, the more chance there is of complications and budget overruns. 10 billion is already way too much if we think about everything that needs funding in the province at the moment, but if it had to be done like the government does everything else, it will cost 3 times that worse probably another 5 billion 2-3 years later to fix the mistakes that the ~~ party ti-namis ~~ contractors will have made, probably on purpose.
i admit being a little cynical, but i don't expect much better than that from a party of millionaire accountants.
with patience and petroleum jelly, you can surely fuck a fly.
> feasible? yes. but ... you can also put a pineapple in your anus if you force yourself ...
do you speak from experience?
why are you kink-shame like that?
> you can also stick a pineapple in your anus if you force yourself ... the problem is that it's basically a bad idea.
source ?
glass pots are also feasible.
username checks out
the coughing coyote pass.
\ - "daddy, i want to go see the new disney movie in the cinema"
\ - "no. for your dental braces and for all grandma's medications. you will finance your studies by pulling out chicken entrails at olymel and too bad for grandmother. you will do good for the quebec economy. "
\ - "finally, i will wait until the film is ready, i will buy the dvd when it is on special unmanné."
\ - "too bad for the quebec economy, but don't forget that ** it was you who decided to wait **, not me!"
i still have no idea why the option of a link like beaumont-île d'orléans was not selected.
“the residents of île d'orléans are against”. ok ... but still? do we live in society as far as i know?
what does the caq gain by making the 3rd link undesirable? this is a major point of their platform
are surely better but if we do not go see we will not know what the bottom of the river looks like!
worse, let's say there is a canyon, the cost of the project has just jumped by probably several billion and you have to dig deeper, so that changes the angle of the access ramps. worse if it is too hollow bin they must be changed altogether to make usable access ramps.
is it still worth doing this tunnel if you have to take crazy detours to use it?
or if it costs 15 billion instead of 10?
these are very relevant questions that must be asked!
it is not my field but the author also speaks of geophysical survey, i understand that it does not necessarily go through drilling.
anything can be a dildo if you have enough conviction
no. i am referring to this:
àmadné
mandné
men-born
awei kevin is continuous as ca 😈
quality granny
fine given
a-mam-mné
don't speak french
amané tabarnak.
to me
manna
i like your username.
man born ffalloir arrested lô
ammanné for me
amended or nothing
enmandné
'manna
a moment of nose
manna.
a bonmemné
> the devoir survey shows that 70% of people killed by police officers had a known mental health problem, had expressed suicidal thoughts or made disturbing comments.
with the state of our mental health care, i wonder how many of those lives could have been saved.
over 20 years, or 4 per year on average ... over +/- 8,485 million people.
it is 900 per year in the usa for 329 million people is. they are around 40 times more and have 225 times more police who kill civilians.
this is very reasonable, especially given that the police are grappling both with criminals but also and above all with mental health problems.
edit: serious police-haters, next time someone comes home, call a crackhead to come rescue you. tell me if it's more effective than the ugly police.
very reasonable when you think about it.
"is not an isolated case" ??? at 81 occurrences for ~ 175,000,000 person-years i would say it (and they) is pretty much an isolated case
and yet, the media seem to want us to believe that we are as worse as the united states ...
and i am not saying that there is no room for improvement, but i find that the far left likes too much to appropriate the social interactions of our neighbors to the south as the basis of their arguments.
what is the% in race?
the * police en service * series at télé-québec, which follows spvq police officers, announces from the first episode that the majority of interventions are related to mental health problems. it's interesting how they have to juggle this, but also sad to see that they are unfortunately not the ideal responders for these situations.
i believe these are two separate issues.
the prejudices on mental health problems, accessibility to care, etc. on the one hand.
the fact that a 21-year-old manager at mcdonald's is more able to “de-escalate” a problematic situation than 99% of police officers is another.
the police have little training on everything. unless they specialize. a little handling of weapons, a little law, a little psychology.
on the one hand, no right to make mistakes, on the other hand, no imputability.
police officers investigating police officers.
edit: clearly we have policemen / policeman friends who don't want to debate, ignore the arguments and just downvote. it's not surprising but it's cheap.
not sure to refer to the usa (aka a third world country with golden toilets) is the way to go.
especially when you consider that 75% of these people should rather have been treated in a psychiatric institution and not by the police. but you know, when it takes 2 years on a waiting list to have access to a psychologist, it sure doesn't help ...
seriously, this show is amazing, i really liked it. it's far from being kick-ass with the police and it shows us their reality.
the police officers on the show clearly want to do the right thing, but ciborium that they are not trained and equipped to deal with crises from people with mental health problems.
what i realize is that they should have social workers in the police and that the police should train, train, and retrain their officers to deal with crises and people with mental health problems.
also, there should be plainclothes policemen to deal with his situations there. many people they deal with are clearly uncomfortable dealing with a guy wearing a bulletproof vest.
i may be speaking through my hat, but i have the impression that you are transposing american "training" to what the police here have for training.
while chatting with my police uncle, he constantly talks about how his job of sq in a semi-rural environment is ultimately the job that the parish priest did a century ago, which is to say listen to people and try to do that they change their behavior so that society advances, and desecrate the baffles of neighbors ...
it is always better than countries like england with such a weak police force that they are not even able to stop knife attacks ....
but ohhh it seems their jobs as social workers are doing that # 1.
the guy is confused when he does not tax 1/3 of his pay, thinks that it is the third world lmao
i already did an internship with the sq for 1 day in secondary 5. it made me hate their job. first his boyfriend was doing radar and he told me to check well that, go to 150 next to his ti policeman friend who then the radio contact, hey you are the fastest i have poger today! then we went to a fairly poor village, thank you for hearing a native american girl at 11am. and the rest i more or less remember. a real cry of joke, i came back from this day, telling myself, real filth the sq. in addition to speaking of sq i cross more sq on the road while making quebec ottawa which i crossed of police force while doing 5000km in bc.
the police who say the police are not that bad. have you ever been surrounded by agents who put on their gloves and who surround you to escape a situation?
in between and a gang of poorly trained guys who like to shoot too much gun, not all.
what?
> the police who say the police are not that bad.
this is not what i said.
> have you ever been surrounded by agents who put on their gloves and who surround you to escape a situation?
no you?
i have no doubt that it is possible, especially after what we saw of the spvm vs square red. i doubt however that this is systematically because of their training.
police training in the usa is roughly the equivalent of a dep indeed, i can't argue about that. they are even less equipped to manage social cases than our police officers with their training which is 3x longer.
we still see the result, in proportion to the population, 40 fewer police officers who have to lethally resort to their weapons.
oh noes we all gonna diee !!!!   
there are so many products on the shelves of the saq that it will just be good to empty a few. (jk)
seriously, if what i heard, that the saq was going to open a warehouse with scabs, it sucks.
solidarity with the striking workers.
don't buy anything on black friday.
don't show up for work, especially if you have a shit job.
what are they gonna fire you? it engages, everywhere.
bleed the already too fat capitalist piglets.
what will the saq version of the ass paper be like at the end of the week?
another great reason why this should all be privatized.
not happy with the conditions of your $ 18 / h job which does not require any training? (apart from a secondary 5) go educate yourself and then share your new talents with society instead of complaining with your sign.
any grocery chain could take over the vacuum not leave the saq in the space of a few weeks.
during the 2010 four-month strike, it was the managers who worked in the few branches that remained open.
no scab callis. arrange yourself with your non-unionized employees!
get ready
boff, i'm used to being downvoted by the little basement marxists on r / quebec
i am based / r / québec
> almost forty years after the solemn commitment, a french version of the constitutional act of 1867 is not yet in force, on the grounds that adoption of the whole of this text requires, according to the amendment procedure put in place with the patriation of the constitution, a resolution adopted by the two chambers of parliament and a majority of the provinces representing more than 50% of the canadian population, or even according to several, the unanimity of the provinces.
the section of the constitution (in the constitution act, 1982) provides as follows:
> 55 a french version of the portions of the constitution of canada referred to in the schedule shall be prepared by the minister of justice of canada as expeditiously as possible and, when any portion thereof sufficient to warrant action being taken has been so prepared, it shall be put forward for enactment by proclamation issued by the governor general under the great seal of canada pursuant to the procedure then applicable to an amendment of the same provisions of the constitution of canada.
i wrote to my mp to suggest that, as only the english version of the * constitution act, 1867 * is legal, the clause amending the quebec constitution proposed by bill 96 be included * in french * in the english version. (official) of the * constitution act, 1867 *. otherwise the french version of the clause would have no legal status, which is (probably?) contrary to the quebec constitution, and at the same time it puts the absurdity of the thing on the nose of the federal government.
i have not had any feedback on my message.
as expeditiously as possible...
rambo gauthier probably has the right, yes.
(insert joke by denis coderre here)
[unfortunately, no.] (
> for the 2021 election, you may be eligible for a council member position if you have the right to be registered or registered on the municipal list of electors by meeting the following criteria
>  
> be 18 years of age or over on november 7, 2021;
>  
> be a canadian citizen on september 1, 2021;
>  
> not be under curatorship on september 1, 2021;
>  
> not to have been convicted or convicted of a corrupt electoral practice since august 31, 2016;
>  
> not be in a situation of ineligibility due to employment (eg, election officer, municipal employee or municipal employee) or violation of the laws of quebec or canada;
>  
> a) be domiciled or domiciled in the territory of the municipality on september 1, 2021 and in quebec for at least six months on that same date;
>  
> or
>  
> b) be the owner of a building or the occupant of a business establishment located in the territory of the municipality for at least 1 year on september 1, 2021 (e.g .: own a chalet)
>  
> reside in the territory of the municipality, continuously or not, for at least one year on september 1, 2021. it is your responsibility to check whether you meet the eligibility conditions for a position of member of the council of your municipality .
with a turkey as prime minister, that wouldn't surprise me much.
no, it is forbidden, with the exception of outremont, provided that the candidate is for the liberal party, and that it is a cauchon.
he can introduce himself but just if he is a guide dog!
i believe that a cat was also elected mayor.
don't insult the dogs.
we already have a small poodle.
quebec solidaire in power within 7-10 years do you think that could happen? considering that the pq and the plq seem to be going nowhere.
interesting article
> despite appearances, caquists like solidarity. the left party is their useful enemy.
> during the québec solidaire (qs) congress at the end of the week, the caquists tore their shirts while retaining a little shiver of happiness. what, you really want to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 55% by 2030? but… but… it's irresponsible, so please continue!
> the coalition d'avenir québec (caq) and qs share the same goal: to replace the old parties. they dream of eliminating the pq and marginalizing the liberals.
> the solidarity groups have not increased their support since the last elections. they have fewer seats and less voting intentions than the liberals. but the caquists treat them as their main opponent, for three reasons.
> because it is with them that their disagreement is greatest. because it overshadows the liberals and the pq. and finally, because they dream of campaigning against them.
it would be difficult, but it is possible to hope for the growth of the party in a context of a shortage of charismatic leaders in quebec. gabriel nadeau-dubois scores a lot of points since he was the main spokesperson and seems to know the recipe to make françois legault break the bank (the woke / duplessis saga being a good example), thus allowing the party to monopolize media space.
in short, considering that the elections are, among other things, a personality contest, it is possible to believe in the potential of gnd. in addition, demographic changes are taking place slowly, but we can consider that the majority of future growth in quebec will be through immigration, a segment of the population historically more vulnerable and supported / courted by qs.
no. i have the impression that people will turn to the plq again when they are sick of the caq.
the day when quebec solidaire will be able to take power, it will be the day when they let down their radical elements who live outside reality. but will it really be qs there?
they are good at launching ideas that provoke debate, but details are always lacking in their execution. how do you manage to reduce ghgs by 55% in 8 years?
> québec solidaire in power within 7-10 years do you think that could happen?
solidarity activists regularly remind us of this quote from rené lévesque: "but parties called to last generally age quite badly. they tend to turn into secular churches out of which there is no salvation and can be downright unbearable. ideas become sclerotic and it is political expediency that replaces them. any nascent party should in my opinion include in its statutes a clause providing that it will disappear after a certain time. a generation? not much more, or otherwise, no matter what plastic surgeries claim to give it a makeover, one day it will be nothing more than an old age encumbering the political landscape and preventing the future from breaking through.
in 7-10 years, qs is going to be an old party.
> québec solidaire in power within 7-10 years do you think that could happen?
not if they don't describe their islamist, anti-quebec and marxist fringes outside. in short, not until they become like the pq.
there is also the environmental factor.
it will be an increasingly important issue and it is not so much the strength of the caq.
tabarnak, if quebec solidaire becomes party # 1, i will stand for election.
i have the impression that the plq will balaramize itself before people really get disgusted with the caq.
the original proposal was 45% but the activists wanted 65%.
over time the more radical militants will end up giving up on their own, potentially the more the party will have proposals that are closer to reality. they may reform one of their marginal party later.
lots of assumptions of course, i'm not a member or a potential qs voter so it may not make sense.
the plq and the pq were able to seize power even with their radical elements who lived outside of reality.
qs remains a third party, so cannot really be considered an old party. it is in the process of transforming itself into a governing party, and will probably have a few short and medium term mandates, before probably becoming an old party, in the sense that lévesque understands it.
> solidarity activists regularly remind us of this quote from rené lévesque: "but parties called to last generally age quite badly. they tend to turn into secular churches out of which there is no salvation and can be frankly unbearable.
qs has managed to become this without being an old party!
in 10 years, qs will be the party “for whom mom and dad voted when they were at cegep in the 2010s”.
> in short, not until they become like the pq.
so qs will not be in power until he becomes like the pq which has never been so far from power.
although legault has refocused considerably on the environmental issue in recent months; we can see that he clearly wants to occupy this space. he will try to present the electric car as the solution (when it is obvious that this is not the case), which at the same time allows him not to contradict himself with his projects of tunnels and urban sprawl. .
to have...
except that at the environmental level, qs will either have to come up with an extremely concrete and inventive plan to reach their reduction targets or risk exposing themselves to easy attacks and being ridiculed on this point that they want to be strong. .
selling to a few neighborhoods in montreal that a world without a gas car is possible in 8 years is one thing. it's completely crazy as soon as you leave the center. it's not even a winning speech in the suburbs.
easy to come up with solutions if you only sell them to a microcosm that you woo. it's quite another when you want to woo and win an entire province with a wide variety of socio-economic situations.
unless qs promises to buy electric cars for everyone in 8 years (you get a car and you get a car and everyone gets a green car), their target lacks viable and non-ridiculous solutions.
ok.
or they will find a new leader less drab than dominique anglade as they did in the 90s when they replaced the drab daniel johnson jr. with the federal conservative defector john james charest.
it's not a tourtière it's a pain au chocolat.
the people who call the meat pie of the tourtière are probably the same people who call all the ein nintendo video game consoles.
in my vocabulary, tourtière and tourtière from lac saint jean are 2 different things
your lake tourtiere is also meat in the dough so the other meat dough according to your own categorization.
lac-saint-jean: tourtière ≠ meat pie
montreal: tourtière ≠ tourtière du lac-saint-jean
paris in a pastry = paris pâté
i think, i don't know, chu not french
i'm going to keep calling it tourtière because everyone recognizes it as tourtière and yes sometimes the words change meaning. the important thing is that everyone understands us.
worse, ultimately, we don't care.
\ * read the old comment thread \ *
shit, me who thought that pie really came from the now extinct species of bird, pie. we learn every day. [ chauffage( deguster / 201511/27 / 01-4925449-tourtiere-ou-pate-a-la-meat.php) [ -disparition /] (
while doing my research, here is an interesting article on the origins of tourtière and six-pasta: [ : //ici.radio-canada.ca/nouvelle/1447084/tourtiere-cipaille-sixpates-pate-viande)
for all the nazis of the recipe and the authenticity, here is an excerpt from the book * sapiens * which had marked me:
> we continue to speak of "authentic" cultures, but if by this word we mean something which has developed independently, and which consists of ancient local traditions withdrawn from outside influences, there are no authentic cultures on earth. in recent centuries, global influences have changed all cultures to the point of making them almost unrecognizable.
> “ethnic” cuisine is one of the most interesting examples of this globalization. in an italian restaurant, you would expect to find spaghetti with tomato sauce; in polish and irish restaurants, lots of potatoes. at an argentinian, you have the choice between dozens of steaks; with an indian, it is hardly a dish without pepper; and in any swiss café, the prize goes to thick hot chocolate topped with a mountain of whipped cream. however, none of these products originate from these countries. tomatoes, peppers and cocoa are of mexican origin, and did not arrive in europe and asia until after the conquest of mexico by the spaniards. julius caesar and dante alighieri never wrapped spaghetti with tomato sauce around their forks (which had not yet been invented); william tell never tasted chocolate, and buddha never spiced up his food with chili. the potato arrived in poland and ireland just four centuries ago. and in 1492 we would only have found in argentina a llama steak.
cipate gaspésien > tourtière
potato tart from the lake.
the six-pasta him? (i laugh)
for me it's just a question of the dish used. if you make your meat pie in a pie dish, it's a pie. if you make it in the same big container as a tourtière, don't put potatoes, i don't care, you can call it a tourtière.
again, for chicken paté ... some brands of chicken paté are made with 75% sauce, 24% vegetables, and 1% chicken.
just because of that, even my mom buys no name chicken pate because they don't put vegetables in it, and there is more chicken (she just makes vegetables separately)
but i actually never understood st-hubert's stubbornness in calling their meat paté a tourtiere ...
the tourtière of the lake, there is only real as a tourtière
meat pie sounds like an anglicism of "meat pie".
true french canayans of quebecois origin from pure north america say tourtière, the rest are colonized people who are afraid to speak the real deal in their language.
pie in batter = tourtière ¯ \\ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
according to this logic, the tourtière no longer exists, the pie having disappeared.
shame on st-hubert!
your meat pies will not go away !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
long live st hub. get away from your story of putting potatoes or you shouldn't
st hub has probably the best tourtiere in north america
it protects them
it protects us
it protects others
kesse do you want more?
7 and 9 years old, will be vaccinated
in exactly the same situation. i listen to the vox pops of the last few days and most of the more reluctant parents say they want more information. i have the impression that we will not really have any. i am pro vaccine, but mautadine that things go fast. and right now, i don't feel the urgency of the vaccination. my only fear is a possibility of long covid.
let's see, your children's classroom or daycare has never had covid-19 constraints?
are you tired of having to change your plans when these changes of time or place could be warned?
my children are under 5 years old, i'm tired of testing them and keeping them for a cold (i think we have reached 9 tests each). the couple of parents that we are, we no longer have sick leave, we freelance from our vacations and we are late at work.
would you like to tell me just with these elements why you would not have them vaccinated?
all this you could avoid or reduce these impacts with the vaccine.
i would say that the well-being of the child is the most important, psychological as well as physical. is it worth breaking up a family for this? with what we know today?
a lot of people here believe in it. i am not convinced of it.
it was written in the sky that hesitant parents were going to become the next scapegoats for the way out of the crisis. this thread amply proves it.
i look forward to their turn. it is a guarantee of peace of mind both in health and social terms. they came with me when i received my vaccines and we also accompanied my teenager in turn to show that there is no reason to worry about a small needle. i intend to receive my family for the holidays and that involves being around older and / or vulnerable people. children can easily be asymptomatic and pose a significant risk of infection. their vaccinations are an important step in managing this crisis.
6 and 3, even the youngest would be vaccinated if it was possible. like measles and human papilloma, it should be mandatory.
criss yes they will be vaccinated
i brought my 4 year old and 1 year old for the flu shot yesterday, if they were old they would be vaccinated against covid too.
right, because the most important thing is to get back to normal, not to protect our children and those around us.
worse anyway, we will not get back to normal before all sections of the population are well vaccinated, so that your part is sioupled.
it is understood between the lines of health discourse that the risks of myocarditis after the vaccine are greater in children than their risks of complications related to covid.
we also understand that vaccinating children is especially for adults. and in particular those not vaccinated (good, like bad reasons).
although i am adequately vaccinated, i will not vaccinate my 5 year old daughter.
"mautadine that going fast" ha good? they've been talking about it for a long time though.
if it ever helps there have been 3 million children vaccinated in the united states so far, 0 cases of myocarditis.
dr. quash and other doctors have been in the media every day for the past 2 weeks talking about childhood immunizations. what more do you take?
if taking the vaccine means that your child can go to school without a mask or that it will take their qr code from them like adults, it will motivate more let's say
> i have the impression that we will not really have any.
2076 according to the fda
> long covid
0 worries. children who have not had covid have more symptoms than those who have had it after several weeks.
and what does the vaccination change?
you're going to have all runny noses tested again
there will still be the masks in elementary school
there will even have the restrictions
worse when the cases go up (which is already starting) people will still blame the children who do not follow the guidelines well even if they were 100% vaccinated.
0 change in restrictions, worth the small risk of vaccine complication? for the slightest chance that it protects a bit of the transmission and adds a little bit of life to an 80+?
as i said i would be up to vaccinate them but i am not going to put my marriage on the line either ...
the vaccine against measles and hpv is not mandatory in quebec.
i'm not sure which lines you're reading between, but they clearly say in this article that the risk of myocarditis after having covid (yes it does happen) is greater than having one after the vaccine.
it can't be clearer, if you interpret them differently. if you're doing university research, i don't want to know what you're looking for ...
it is understandable to read the lines that the risks of myocarditis linked to covid are greater than those linked to the vaccine.
review of weekend qs promises by bernard drainville.
* reducing quebec's ghgs by 55% within 5-6 years would mean removing all cars and trucks from quebec roads plus
* halve industrial emissions or close agriculture in quebec
and that would not be enough yet ...
bernard drainville at least has the merit of putting the québec solidaire program into perspective. and to ask: during that time china would open more coal-fired power plants. in short, the climate emergency is real, it must be taken seriously and québec solidaire feeds cynicism with proposals as disconnected from reality as those which were adopted at its congress at the end of the week.
5 seconds from pierre-nantel and 2 minutes from nordiques.
jaime drainville
let us be realistic, let us demand the impossible.
> meanwhile china would open more coal-fired power plants. in short, the climate emergency is real, it must be taken seriously and québec solidaire feeds cynicism with proposals so disconnected from reality.
because china pollutes that means that we should not act? i find that this logic feeds much more into cynicism than a difficult proposition.
he puts the proposals in perspective, of course, but i'm not really convinced that he's doing it objectively. why are we not talking about an agro-ecological revolution rather than "closing" agriculture? qs scores quite well in agricultural regions, and it is not for nothing. the industrial agricultural model destroys the fertility of the land, the ecosystem and poisons the physical and mental health of farmers, thereby destroying the quebec family agricultural model which struggles to compete with foreign mega-farms and resist the ambitions of financiers and speculators. earthlings.
i wonder why it is unrealistic to halve industrial emissions. do we have so little confidence in our ability to innovate? do we have so little confidence in our hydroelectric and wind power system?
then somehow peak oil is reached. oil will cost more and more (with variations, but the trend is clear), will be more and more complex to exploit and will be increasingly scarce. the logical choice is therefore to find a way to get rid of this dependence.
obviously, we have a minimal role to play in mitigation, even if per capita we have work to do. we must therefore obviously concentrate our efforts on adapting to climate change, which is inevitable now anyway. except that in order to adapt, to be resilient, we have to get rid of our dependence on oil.
yeah, but the effort is different. here, the choice to pollute less is to take a compact car rather than an suv, while in developing countries like china, india or brazil, they are asked to choose between heating vs. not to heat the winter, or to work vs. do not work.
the only downside i would add is that emissions from agriculture, i believe tractors, trucks and other machinery is extremely negligible, most of the emissions must come from livestock / cattle methane mainly.
that’s a good promise from the caq, and more realistic.
if we're not radical in the fight against climate change, we might as well do nothing.
it sounds so much like a trade union slogan.
either way, they pollute for our benefit. we send our recycled cardboard home to burn it to generate electricity that is used in the factories of stupid cossins that we buy without pause.
we should open power plants fueled by cynicism, the only real fully renewable resource.
no, that is not the point. the purpose is to have a global point of view on this problem. quebec's weight in this global pollution is insignificant compared to china and it is no small feat to remind people.
you are right. i am confident in our ability to change, to innovate. but in less than 8 years? i no longer have the impression that this is a political posture and not a realistic plan. the justin trudeau recipe, what?
> qs scores quite well in agricultural regions, and it's not for nothing.
hay?
this is a quote from che guevara. and that's my current badge.
well almost. the real quote is let's do the impossible.
china is also building lots of nuclear power plants, hydroelectric dams, etc.
they are also strong on solar panels and wind turbines.
it is certain that the number of coal-fired power stations looks big, but there is still 20% of the world population. we expect them to stay in the middle ages to give us a clear conscience? in addition, what percentage of this pollution is made necessary by the fact that they manufacture all this beautiful scrap that we consume in north america?
in 8 years we will be in 2029, almost 2030, and global warming will reach at least 1.5 degrees celsius and more and more climate changes will be locked in planetary systems: rising ocean levels and acidification, heat waves and wildfires. forests, storms in all seasons, changes in seasonal dynamics and precipitation, migration of ecological niches of flora and fauna. we are already experiencing the impacts of climate change, and they seem to be moving towards an exponential growth in risks and vulnerability considering that we are not moving in line either to mitigate them or to adapt to them.
in other words, it will spank so hard, so quickly, everywhere at the same time, continuously, that we will really do everything to adapt to this new paradigm which endangers the survival of all planetary ecosystems, which includes obviously the survival of our species. the most optimistic scenario is that we will simply experience a rebalancing of our populations according to the ecosystem capacities of our territories, which we have clearly exceeded for decades. in any case, the nations .... or the human groups that will do the best are those who will decide to act now, in an ambitious and radical way.
in some rural constituencies they reach 20%, and it is not uncommon for them to gain polling stations in agricultural areas. obviously i did not do a complete provincial statistical analysis, i say that according to my own field experiences and my own analyzes in certain constituencies.
it's a cirrus cloud and the phenomenon you see is [iridescence] (
wow a burger king on 2 steps!
40 west just after st-laurent?
i too saw a burger king today!
there's a glitch in the matrix
could they be * chaïme tril * !? put plastic on top of your vegetable garden so as not to contaminate your vegetables! / s
[deleted]
it was at what time? i was on 40 this morning and i haven't seen that.
seems to me that it is a parhelion (sun dog). there had to be another similar one at the same distance from the sun, but on the other side.
essence 149.9 ok…
has thor been banned from asgard yet?
war of the worlds
r/atoptics
mmm sushi
sauron, come !!!!
god made a trace of the brake.
aliens
crémazie! :)
it is because of the dictatorship in légo-arrouda.
i took this photo last friday in a remote corner west of st-raymond because the weather forecast predicted a hole in the clouds there. finally it clouded before the "peak" of the eclipse, but i still managed to produce this image.
gear:
sony a6400
tamron 28-200 at 85mm
zenithstar 61 (moon only)
ioptron skyguider pro
from my instagram:
full resolution images and prints:
with the pleiades as a bonus! really nice
... well, i can't be the only one to see a pokeball ...
unbelievable.
the worst part is that i have a celestro 9in telescope. but i'm still really bad.
i am curious to know if there are sites to explain well how to do astrophoto.
unfortunately i have an azimuth mount, in short, not equatorial. so not 100% ideal. but i have a canon dslr with a ring.
i have the impression that i have ile gear, but not knowing it :)
wow, i'm surprised to see what kind of results you can have so close to quebec, it's fun to know that. it would be a great retirement plan for me.
yeeee ... beautiful image! well done!
fucking nice bro
[his throne](
damn that's pretty.
i think i'll steal this from you as a wallpaper for my vertical screen :)
not bad!
how do you find the skyguider? i plan to eventually get a small mount for travel that would be easier to lug around than the avx and collect the info.
wonderful op plug!
for those who don't know: pléaides is the 5 blue stars. in japanese they are called subaru, and the emblem of the subarus tanks is the 5 stars :)
i would recommend astrobackyard and peter zelinka on youtube, they have some great beginner videos. specifically peter zelinka has a video (video series? i remember more) on how to photograph the milky way which covers the basics of astrophotography, including "stacking" his photos.
regarding your celestron, without electronic mount, it can not badly only be used for photos of the moon and the planets, maybe also the heart of orion which is very shiny. i would focus on the hot photo equipment you have if i were you. my photo was taken at 85mm on aps-c, so 128 full frame equivalent, not a telescope focal length.
thank you!
it does the job well, i have the version with ipolar for more precise / fast / easy polar alignment, but for that you have to drag a computer and the software is not great. for sheer portability i believe the "moveshootmove" is better for the price.
i know the principle of ipolar, having a polemaster (which does quite the same job, ie a camera with software that tells you where to place the mount for alignment). it's so much easier to do the polar alignment with this: d and having almost always a computer with me (i always carry one to manage my photo backups when i go on a trip), it wouldn't really be a problem for me.
it's cool, i'm going to keep it in my list, thanks for the info and another great job for the photo!
> faced with quebec's inaction, innu communities and the société pour la nature et des parcs are preparing legal proceedings to force ottawa to intervene. the sign of a glaring lack of leadership.
phew, that would be the supreme insult for legault. maybe that will push him to finally act? i won't hold my breath though, the hockey ministry looks pretty overwhelming these days.
the labor shortage is hampering the recruitment, training and retention of employment insurance officers. you can call the call center back an umpteenth time, but it may be faster to apply for a job with service canada.
emplois.gc.ca
it's not supposed to be normal, but it's made the norm.
i work as a student in a services quebec office and the number of people who are forced to submit temporary social assistance applications (and reimbursable to the ministry) is greater than ever.
if you're really in trouble, this might become an option for you. social assistance pays you while you are unemployed and you are expected to reimburse the quebec government with money from services canada. it's ridiculous amounts that rarely cover rent costs, but that's the social safety net.
it's really crap, but unfortunately you have to live with it.
r / eicerb
similar stories on this sub.
it's always long, even worse since the pandemic, i applied in 2017 i believe in mid-december and i received my benefits in february when i had started working again on january 31.
it took 8 months to correct a civil status error with the cra.
the guy who gave us the process said it's normally done 5-10 days after receiving the document. they received the document in march ... and it has just been processed.
there are deadlines everywhere right now,
about 3 months and a few weeks on my side before receiving.
me it was fast, i made my request online and 4 weeks later i had my 1st deposit. i have 2 other colleagues who have had more or less the same delay.
just an anecdote:
about ten years ago, i made a request that fell through the cracks of the system. when it finally unlocked, my period of unemployment was already over and i received all of my checks on the same day, each in its own envelope. it made me a whole day (chic-a-ching) but let's say that fortunately i had enough money to subsist while the officials '* fucked up' * otherwise i would have found it a lot more painful.
if your process is long it is because it could not be processed by the system and it requires human intervention. in this case, they process them in order, on the other hand you can always make reminders every week by calling, but these reminders will only be used for a specialist agent to call you back to discuss your file but will not be necessarily one able to intervene directly in your file.
personally, my request is still under review since the end of october. but hey, we need to give them a "reasonable" time to process our request.
me too it had been super long… roughly speaking, i had too much information on 2-3 days of jobs at the start of the reference period. it had no impact on the calculation, and i had plenty of my hours, fak i didn't say so. it took them months because our file was collected in special processing because of it, to tell me that it would have no impact (as i knew well). i got my payment around the same time as my pay at my new job.
it was very cave.
it's when you have a case that is outside the standards and you need a "high ranking" officer to approve your case. this is where you'd better have savings ... 2 months waiting for me at the start of 2021.
call your federal deputy. he has a direct line with employment insurance to unblock your file, especially when the deadlines are exceeded and you get fooled.
imagine receiving a job application form from service canada at the same time as you apply for employment insurance ...
> the labor shortage hinders the recruitment, training and retention of employment insurance officers
how ironic, though.
it must have been good to finally be able to pay his credit note with the grocer. / s
the rcmp received my gun license application on april 4 and i just received a letter requesting additional information.
i sent my request in early july. i'm less worried that i'm not the only one waiting so much lol
to put the liberals or qs?
because the pq, i'll be surprised if they have more than matanes in the next election.
pascal berube even liked on twitter the comments of people who doubted the balls of his boss. i would not be surprised if he may have 1 election left before announcing his retirement…
so remain the liberals (who have ruined almost everything the work of the pq, in 15 years of service to the ti-namis) or qs, the anti-all, a party grappling with extremist sub-groups of which they do not even arrive. themselves to manage them but would like to manage quebec ...
not sure that either of the two really tempts me.
i'm ready.
the caq came to upset the federalist / sovereignist axis in place for ages by offering a kind of nationalism within canada. so they stole a lot of support that traditionally went to the liberals and the pq. we risk being dragged with it for a long time.
a little tired of monoc 'legault and its bullshit. i am doubly vaccinated.
honestly, i think the caq is the best able to lead quebec at the moment, but i would not be against qs being the official opposition.
100% okay, but honestly, i don't know how we're going to get rid of it. they lead everywhere except in like a dozen constituencies, most of them being pivot points anyway: /
solidarity
m  
a  
j  
o
r  
i  
t  
a  
i  
r  
and
freedom!!!!!
i'm almost tempted to save the game and choose qs ...
gnd majority
do you remember the tweets in question?
worse perhaps you find that as a defect, but i have no problem with qs being displayed "anti" or "against" the ideas of marde of our current government as productivity over anything, 3rd link ... c just because you're up against something doesn't mean you're automatically bad.
i found it interesting to hear nantel on mike ward's podcast talk about the pq. sometimes we don't realize how shit it can be inside even a game.
i do not see a party that seems to me also divided leading the nation.
no one is perfect in life, but hope is annoying.
the liberal team is ready
shall we give ourselves st-pierre? shall we give ourselves anglade? shall we give ourselves dubois? ... fuck the slogan doesn't work great
for me, the caq is plq 2.0.
i am biased towards a minority qs government. ideally with dorion as minister of pentoute nothing.
does the same with the conservative party. just looking.
it dates from last week the move of "paul" mouillé, just have to look at the history of bérubé.
in fact qs is against things, for the environment but having an ex-leader who smokes, another who has had 4 children when we know that above all the causes of pollution, children are the 1st and bought an suv to lug all his kids around the streets of quebec.
you can be against but be consistent in your against.
but op, what are you suggesting to us?
me, i want to do my part for his, i'm on the electoral list ... but exchanging 4 thirty cents against 65 cents or against a ration coupon, will need a good argument to convince me!
we. are. ready.
best post on this sub for a long time
are you listening to netflix on the same device that connects to the vpn? it's weird because a vpn doesn't change your entire network.
i had a vpn that prevented me from listening to netflix or prime
looks like something is missing from your story.
do you use the same pc when she is working to watch netflix?
are you using this job's router? (quite unusual as a situation ...)
it's a bit of a weird situation, i don't think his vpn is causing the problem. it looks like a situation i experienced, when i was with telus for my cell when i was on mobile data, i had netflix us, but netflix canada on wi-fi at home.
should you see where does netflix (or whatever) think you are. try this site:
it tells me i'm in montreal, but i'm not there all of the time. this is what i often see when it takes my location by ip only.
if it tells you something other than canada, ask your isp where their server is, it might be in the same place.
see what your public ip address is when you want to stream netflix. make sure it's your isp's
a vpn does not affect your entire network (edit unless defined at the router level ..) and the netflix application does not have access to your entire network. it's a bit of a weird story.
100% of the times that your girlfriend doesn't work connected to a vpn, have you ever had a problem with netflix?
the error message is that they have detected a vpn?
also a vpn doesn't necessarily make you look like you're in another country unless your girlfriend works outside of canada? because if it is for a company in quebec, the vpn is mainly used to secure the communication channel and not to make you look like people in the bahamas ....
does she have your netflix installed on her laptop?
maybe netflix will do a background check and update the region on your behalf.
i have at least 7-8 vpn software installed on my work laptop to connect to different clients, none has ever caused problems on my end with netflix with other devices on my network.
what software in particular are you using?
i would see if there is not a history of connection sharing activated on your workstation which would give an ip in dhcp to equipment on your local network. improbable but not impossible i suppose.
netflix starts blocking known vpns
really weird.
i have personal and work vpns and my netflix has never changed region unless i access netflix from a computer on which i am connected to the vpn.
not exactly!
this is my personal internet and my work pc is used just for work. i have a tv with android for netflix.
i also have the impression that a piece of the puzzle is missing
whole province or do you have a region in mind?
how many kilometers? the hike with dog can range from 500 meters to a long hike of several days.
not in sepaq. the trails with dogs allowed are extremely limited and you get looked crooked.
val-david has a good network of snowshoe trails.
appalachian park. dogs are accepted everywhere.
devil's mountain park at ferme-neuve, but 50% of dog owners do not follow the instructions and leave their dogs loose. so hope your dog is the bigger of the two or you could come back alone.
sorry for the lack of precision. ideally everywhere in the province, i would like to move around a bit. day hikes between 10 and 20km approximately!
the same goes for gatineau park. only 15 km of trails with dogs allowed in winter. and one of them is shared with the winter bikes which make my dog do monster jumps. and the entrance is splitter with cross-country skis ... not jo-jo.
even "no dogs" dogs are tolerated (at least here)
everyone is happy to see dogs
even our municipal park "without dog" there are always people with theirs (and ours)
i have less experience with this kind of length. my dog is getting old so a winter walk of 4-5 km is his maximum.
otherwise, you also have to make sure that the path is well typed so that pitou is comfortable. personally, i'm not a fan of snowshoeing with my dog. he must make 5 times more efforts to follow me as he has than his little paws.
i recommend the balise quebec site. you can select the dog allowed option.
otherwise, the espaces blog always has plenty of articles to enjoy the outdoors with your dog!
do you snowshoe sportily? 10-20 km is huge for me.
thanks for the reference!
i do a lot of running (half and marathon) in the summer and a lot of snowshoes (regularly) in the winter! now that i have a husky, i would like to take it on long outings! so basically yes, i do sports!
task failed successfully?
hlp503 is no error code
this is schrödinger's mistake !!
phew. i feared a mistake. this is only an error free message.
i imagine the basic programming is that each error code has a title (short title) and a text (longer version) and the code is not associated with messages in the db fack the programmers have done that this pass is what appears in the title and in the default text box. it's not great but hey i think that's what happened with hlp503. i googled it i find nothing.
you fall into an edge case not covered by error handling lol kind useful for debugging but fuck all to use it.
dear customer, have you heard of our helix offer?
r/softwaregore
i love!
i have never seen this message after 6 years of tech support at videotron. i imagine that a reboot to settle the trouble?
circulated, citizen.
there is no problem, not whine
did you call videotron to tell them that you have no error message on your screen?
my guess: hlp = help, so it must be the 503 help message, it can't find the item in its database so the "else" of the display is to display that there is no error message associated with the hlp-503. unless the hlp-503 is exactly that, "there is no error message" ... mystery :) would have to look at the code, only way to find the reason!
your first problem is that you still pay for the cable ... fucking why?
these aren't the droids you are looking for.
well! their excel file to shit
this error is not what you are looking for.
- jedi hand pass -
we have successfully succeeded in failing our task of failing.
it seems to me more like a failed succeeding task!
it happened to me 2 months ago. it was just a drain pipe that had a hole in it. it cost $ 35 for a new hose and 10 minutes to change it.
it would be worth it to find the source of the problem before you call someone and get charged $ 150-200 ...
i think my friend's dad does that for a job. he lives in pincourt. i will ask him and i will get back to you!
it happened to me last month, but it was the door seal that was cracked.
found on amazon (out of stock everywhere else in qc), youtube tutorial, in 1 hour it was fixed, and i had never done this before.
well, i crowned a bit like martin matte when fixing the new seal but in the end i got there.
there's not much in a washer, open your back and look, you'll be surprised how simple it is.
youtube is your friend. you enter the modem numbers and the brand, you will be surprised.
> "pressure, i've had it all my hockey life, i didn't buy a job to have done so much at 50, still racing". his wife and son have taken over the daily operations of the restaurant. despite everything, he is there two days a week to give them a helping hand.
wait, you're 50 ... you own a restaurant and you cry that you're in it 2 days a week?
why is he bawling?
faculty works for him 2 days a week, but complains of lack of manpower?
tim horton which is probably one of the worst employers in quebec, which prevents you from going to take a piss outside of your breaks.
and he talks about the wage being above the minimum wage but he gives no price. how do you pay your staff, $ 1 more? $ 2 more? $ 5 more? worse what are the conditions. are you the one who enters 24-25-26 so that your employees have quality time with their families?
another who will say that the profit is around 3-4% i imagine ....
> immigration processes are long and arduous, and francophone employees are sometimes hard to find. and the hiring of retirees is not having the expected success.
and there you go. they admit that they need immigrants or old shit for their cheap labor.
pierre sévigny can eat a char of mustard. i already went to one of his tims while he was there, and he openly yelled at his employees in front of customers.
in addition, his restaurant is lined with photos of him as if he were an emperor.
article after article of ostis de chiâleux.
do you think your employees are treated well? well not them. otherwise you would have some. worse if you have to crack the key in the door because you are not profitable enough to compete with other employers who offer them conditions that attract employees, well, it's the libe market!
funny, * my * boss is successful in hiring and retaining his employees. yet the shortage of manpower in my field, it has been there for years. i wonder what's special about him?
just because you're an entrepreneur doesn't mean the company should guarantee you to make a profit in perpetuity. no one owes you to work for you.
that said, when it was we who had to shut our mouths for fear of not being able to put bread on the table, where were the newspaper articles?
> “i have young people, on occasion, that the parent calls me to tell me that he cannot go home because he is sick. and i must tell them that if their child does not come home, i must close my restaurant. it doesn't make sense, ”says this source, which reports constant pressure.
is it sanitary to force employees to work with food while they are sick?
i love all these articles from whining bosses, each time they shoot each other in the foot for the length of testimony and everyone can realize how incompetent and toxic chouineurs they are.
there are employees. it's not as if covid has decimated quebec's workforce. it's just that people go to employers who offer better conditions.
if tim hortons cannot adapt to this reality, then their model is not sustainable. society does not have the responsibility of artificially keeping alive a company that refuses to adapt to reality.
“degrowth is bad for the economy”.
i think we have enough indicators to prove that infinite growth (regardless of human, natural and material resources) has reached its limit.
are you a joke about this article?
> we thought of buying a business and collecting cash without working. my wife gets up at 4am rather than $ 15 employees! business is going well and we are pocketing the pallet, but seriously i have the right to expect old people, immigrants and young people to do this dirty work.
> “but if the little ones close, it will put even more pressure on those who remain. it is a wheel that will not stop turning in the wrong direction. "
what? on the contrary, should every restaurant that closes not make more employees (now released from their previous jobs) available to the restaurants that remain? a restaurant that closes should reduce the pressure on others.
i don't even know if the café i frequented before the pandemic remains open due to having remained in telework. apps and electronic ordering kiosks are multiplying to avoid queues at the checkout, but several fast food franchises will eventually have to close. in my opinion, it will not be a tragedy.
noooo many slaves to serve average quality coffee at an unreasonable price!
"i have no choice, my employees come home at 4 am, i can't keep them more than that, it's inhuman"
you also don't have the right bud.
another article to chill out the lack of manpower but which hardly speaks of the salary ...
ben listen to peter, it's like hockey, if you don't perform you won't play my big tbrnk ...
if i didn't have a job these articles would motivate me to stay home just to make them bitch more. nice gang of mard eaters, the bosses, although he has a tim so he's more of a mard vendor.
oh no but cpck jai no money jpx po pay them more !!!! :(
yeah right! millionaires want so badly to remain millionaires who are willing to lose their store just to not raise wages. even if you would give $ 2 more per hour, there are factory jobs that pay like $ 25 an hour, which require no education and in addition (sometimes) your 9-5 tone, not osti of impossible figures of evening and end of week.
also, the $ 1 or $ 2 an hour just compensates for the inflation we have right now.
i know we upvote these articles to laugh about it but it's so stupid.
it's not just the question that there are fewer employees available. in addition to that, tim hortons, mcdonalds and other cheap food vendors, it has been growing everywhere for at least 15 years. worse it looks like it got worse for 2-3 years. i go to places sometimes and i say to myself: "what the fuck, is there a mcdo there, was it really necessary?". these places have always relied on the cheap labor of students, but there are fewer and fewer students. so, we should build fewer tims and stop putting them on every street corner!
> depression, arthritis, bursitis, ligament tear, epicondylitis, herniated disc, neck pain, low back pain, sciatica, tendonitis and carpal tunnel, plantar fasciitis
lord, i might as well say that they are hiring just under 30, that would be easier… lots of things that can be dealt with and that most people will probably experience at least once in their life. i imagine they mean that you shouldn't be in crisis when hiring, but that made me raise an eyebrow.
go private.
agency etc.
on my side in hr 0 trouble if your not criminal record ... anyway you have probation.
if you are ever looking for rpa, i am recruiting in longueuil
you could try to fight the diagnosis.
we agree that this case is pseudo-science ... a diagnosis of conviction fell so quickly.
(from someone who has been diagnosed with bipolar because of an inadequate dose of antidepressants given by the health care system)
[deleted]
thank you very much for the offer! but it's really not in my area.
but i hadn't even thought about it ... it's true that it could be a plan b if it doesn't work at the cisss
as someone has said elsewhere, that might as well say that they are hiring under the age of 30, before someone has to grapple with the many mental disorders that are the result of impossible situations.
i don't know what to think about it tbh, i find it just so unfair, in the sense that i am able to do my course, my internships, and i even worked for a while in crdi and that would be no?
worse, i could work in an agency and do the same job for $ 40 / h (and the government pays like 80-120 / h for agency staff.)
in short, i don't really know. honestly, meds do me good, but it is true that this esti etiquette there, i would do without.
that's why i wrote 'i understand why with the nature of the job'
your point?
[deleted]
fair enough! have a good evening!
[deleted]
hey, i don't know about you, but since i took my meds, i'm stable.
i actually have my gun and weapons license at home, i've never been "scared" and neither have my relatives.
;)~
as far as i agree with the spirit of what he says, the protesters in question are not here for the climate. they just want to have their piece of the pie.
wasn't it rather to get more royalties from this event? because there's a nasty difference between being against something and only being for if you keep getting millions / billions that you can burn into anything without being accountable to anyone.
lol i do not identify with the authorities in the west.
slightly misleading eh 🤷
not as if the demonstrators were there to be good guys. they have financial interests, they don't care about the climate.
it is only for royalties.
worse yeah the reporters had no business there, really irrelevant the tweet.
worse the downvoters, go inform yourself instead of seeing everything with your tinted glasses
canada is an oil state. of course they will protect their main export. no party at the federal level is ready or has a plan to counter the economic collapse that will follow.
that shit starts at the top. trudeau bleats about reconciliation and then sends in the cops to remove indigenous land defenders. i'd almost prefer a tory, at least they're honest about their colonialism.
they even arrested 2 journalists. source: 
no one noticed that was happening. 2 more weeks and they had the national press with them, the site would not have advanced bin bin considering the situation in the south of the province.
"they're doing it just for the cash" is another way of invalidating their identity and their sovereignty, it's a bit like canada.
canada is one of those shithole countries trump is always talking about. lol
if you want to stop building pipelines and using oil, take some responsibility for it. stop using things that are created with oil. that includes the phone or computer you're typing on.
we're not producing oil for fun. we're producing it, because you're demanding it.
it's the hard truth, but people don't realize that they're the problem. on one hand they're chanting to shut down the oil industry, on the other, they give no thought about supporting it when they buy all those useless plastic trinkets and shit.
a little less consumerism at the personal level will do a lot more than protesting. if they're not selling the shit, they're not bothering plowing down a pipeline through native land.
this is like antivax  covid patients fighting with their nurses
barnak. there are many ignorant and ill-informed world in these comments lol
and canadians will still hop their asses online and pretend everything is cool and their country is the place to be, what a joke 💀💀
excuse me but where is that? western canada or quebec?
votes in trudeau for the third time, continues to complain about having the same government...
not really a link between the two...
obviously posted by someone who wasn’t there. textbook example of ‘don’t believe everything you read online’. there is enough tragedy no need for lies.
if only it made an impact on our lives. pity.
who?
good
the college francais campus montreal?
collegiate american football
the impact is now called cf montreal or cfm
i think it's the montreal alouettes' school club. he has football in the name, it can't be anything else.
i know rythme fm, are you the same?
whooosh?
i know cfcf montreal with the asian newsreader the ...
haha impact of montreal. the soccer / football club
yep i saw the username different after answering haha
is not just a victim of daesh, also won a nobel peace prize.
imagine telling a nobel peace prize winner that she feeds islamophobia….
wokism is not a ridiculous decision.
bein is.
we will have to ban the victims of black pimps because it is racism.
well ! the roc and the right-thinking anglo left who spends his time teaching quebec on racism and islamophobia lack judgment. come on mcclean friends, wake up.
denouncing religious extremism should be the duty of all democratic citizens.
it is not because a few heads of knots will mix everything up that it is necessary to censor a work which denounces the excesses of a totalitarian theocratic state.
daesh is the contemporary example of a totalitarian drift. the west experienced its share of catholic religious totalitarianism in the middle ages. we do not ban the history books that report it.
fail toronto, fail mccleans .fail roc
it has already been posted with a more journalistic source than marianne
trudeau's multiculturalism in all its glory.
this is woke in criss
this newspaper looks like a big mess far right identity tho. i'm not saying it didn't happen, just that the picture given may not be fair. impossible to know because there is no source.
i imagine the reality is more nuanced.
there is so much confusion in this story, i wonder where to take it. confuse a terrorist group with muslims, to block a book about sexual slavery in a book club for young girls ...
we have to believe that we do not have the same priorities ...
wokes are cuckold, it's not new
we must never hide the truth anything.
wokism detect.
wow impressing the number of people who did not understand that she is banned because she is not anti-islam, reread the headline "so as not to feed islamophobia"
i guarantee there is a tremendous amount of overlap between the opponents of bill 21 and the kinds of people who do such things.
1 clap for the wokes!
because there, gaston, the racist from terrebonne will really change his mind, by dint of not being fed in his fear of islamism.
[deleted]
i understand where you are going with the mention of his nobel prize.
but a nobel prize is worth what it's worth, obama is also a recipient of a nobel peace prize and his government is responsible for the brothel in libya and indirectly participated in the conflict in syria.
i mean ... it sounds very canadian to me.
it's not "wokism", it's stupidity. not to differentiate between the islamic state and the muslims is not very progressive.
> wokism is not a ridiculous decision.
well no, wokism is in your heads, eh / u / jeannehusse?
lol haven't you read or what? it is banished because it does not feed islamophobia and not because it denounces. basically she is not anti islam and this is the reason for her ban, which is far more to the right than the famous "wokism" at least acuses the good gang 🤣
you must try poutine.
and checkout /r/quebeccity
have a nice trip !
1.walk around vieux quebec : the xmas village in front if city hall is really fun this time of year. 
2. go to île d'orléans: st-pierre vineyard, monna and girls
3. visit wendake village
4. the aquarium of quebec
there is a lot to do. i recommend 1 week in quebec city tbh
if your down for a little fitness activity, you could go for the 398 steps staircase in a wooded area leading to "les plaines d'abraham".
it's called "escalier du cap-blanc".
it's reachable from the do-not-miss beautiful little street "rue du petit champlain" but a fairly long walk along the cliff. 
otherwise, you can start from the top in "les plaines" not too far from the concord hotel (top circular restaurant).
may i know what side of quebec you’re visiting? are you going to quebec, quebec or montreal, trois-rivières or somewhere else?
and top it off with a «  pouding du chômeur ».
op said quebec city.
ah damn! my bad i completely missed that
a fictitious teacher in a fictitious school applies a strawman of a politics to a fictitious situation and you have to believe that this has just proved that all the concepts related directly or indirectly to political doctrine (and by extension all that propaganda will associate with it) would lead a country to its rout.
the fun thing about making up stories is that you can make them say anything to prove your point. me, i had a professor at the university who proved that capitalism could not work. here's how he did it:
the first day he said: "we are in a capitalist society. the important thing is not how the value is generated, but that you generate the value. therefore, the important thing is to make your work no matter who did it.
so a student paid someone in china $ 3 a day to do all of their homework. the student became a surgeon without ever having done a single job. he then killed all the patients he operated on.
who was this student? albert einstein!
funny, but this [fake news] ( has been around since at least 2009.
i would bet it never happened for real, but the behavior makes sense. honestly being in this hypothetical group there i would have actually done fuck all. just as if ever there is a 40k / year "ubi" like that, i'm going to be happy to stop working and grab a big pay cut to grab the seed at home all day. and i'm certainly not alone in this group.
“found on social media feed”, ca dit tout...
two seconds with google to find  this obviously never happened.
and i'm not a journalist, but publishing verbatim something that we didn't write saying "hey people, i found that in my facebook", isn't that plagiarism?
how can i say i have no idea what socialism is without saying i have no idea what socialism is…
ah, the petty bourgeois propaganda to frighten the proletariat ...
the gazette ou the suburban?
true or not it is a great lesson.
if only you were exaggerating ... his story is also stupid.
i say that the same, a person who works only for your salary and who is really satisfied with the minimum in life as you describe, is probably not a super useful person at work and easy enough to replace by a robot that eventually will cost a lot less. so it's not a big loss to the economy as a whole.
> ur pounding the seed at home all day.
worse eat cheese droppings?
it would be a good lesson if the "teacher" knew what socialism is.
and that capitalism rewarded work for real.
the people who work 60 hours in the fields to feed us, the attendants, the nurses, the garbage collectors.
people who work hard in tabarnak but who are zero rewarded in proportion to their work and its importance in society.
this lesson sucks more than a new sweeper plugged into the 240.
typically petty bourgeois response ...
i say that the same, making the robots that replace the world is not badly in line with my job, and i would gladly give up to be paid to do nothing. it's not just burger freaks.
i say that the same, but the guy who sweeps the floor and takes out the garbage every week without complaining is definitely a super helpful person at work.
we found the alt account of op
merci. tell me which parts are not good.
lol it's not gonna happen while bettman is in charge. period.
don't just read the title, it's an opinion piece.
here is the only actual information in the article:
> so, i texted with bill daly this morning, the deputy commissioner of the nhl, and he said a couple of things. he said: yes, we did talk over the phone. no, we don't have any meetings planned right now. yes, we are always interested in meeting and talking but, quote, 'we are obviously pleased with what we have right now.' we'll see where this thing heads
it surprises me that.
the nhl will never integrate pkp into the circle of owners. too unpredictable and angry: we remember his blackout against bell in full playoffs ...
the nhl has no desire to move to 33 teams, there is no team at risk of having to move in the short / medium term. and when there is one, guess who they will choose between houston (6m inhabitants) and quebec (500k inhabitants)?
quebec is a city of caliber in the american league.
kossé that eric girard can do more than the others before him, without spending public money which we desperately need in all kinds of other social projects like hospitals, schools etc?
he’s spiteful towards quebec. i don’t even know what about, but it surely shows.
this. 
bettman doesn't want to know anything about another team in canada, somehow he wants to develop the southern us market ... i can't wait to crown his camp (this year !!)
i'm ready to bet that bettman leaving wouldn't change anything as far as the nordiques are concerned. the job of the comissionner of a sports league is to represent the majority of the owners. bettman isn't interested in bringing back the nordiques because most owners see little to no benefit in bringing them back.
as long as you are going to bawl at bullshit like this, you'll never see the real problem.
phew i think you don't know the american owners well ... if you think they are just quiet little rich you will take a solid leap ...
if pkp did you can with the history of bell, you better not work in a profession that is linked to the economy!
bettman doesn't even have to like quebec to not justify the nordiques
there is no reason for him to settle in qc, the cash in qc is already acquired by mtl, and the micro portion that could watch hockey, but not mtl, is so small that it is not worth it. 'pay attention
eh
i was so afraid that i still tremble. thank you for the advice, i will find a profession unrelated to the economy.
if the canadians continue to have bad seasons, that may change ... but until then. there's going to be baseball in montreal before having hockey in quebec. worse probably, there will be football in quebec before hockey.
he has more money to make in quebec than in seattle.
the problem is not bettman but he acts very well as a lightning rod for the whining.
seattle metro area: 4m people
quebec metropolitan region: 800k people
> he has more money to make in quebec than in seattle.
ha ha ha
seattle: capital of one of the most important cities in the usa, where the headquarters of boeing and amazon are located in addition to a multitude of banks. state population: 8 million people who don't have a team to watch.
quebec: the seat of its only government, population: 8 million who already watch the ch
ben bettman and his team boycott the canadian market it's been a while, there is even a scandal that came out of it a few years ago
from npd to federal green party to parti québécois ... damn!
but otherwise, it is indeed a solid application. the guy knows the area and has very good political experience. it will give it a little boost, but it will take more from the pq.
no matter what we think of the caq, we have no interest in seeing the pq disappear
i went door to door with him when he was in the ndp. we had lunch with his mother. a good guy.
he will lose because nothing can stop the caq bulldozer, but still a nice catch for the pq.
which party will pierre nantel run for in 2025?
although he's generally relevant in his speeches, i don't think it's controversial to say he behaves like a weather vane and i'm not sure i want to have him on my side.
he's a pro-independence activist who took the kind of nice 2.0 risk with layton in 2011 and saw it got nowhere when singh won the ndp leadership race. so he wanted to leave for the bloc, but no longer find himself in this party, probably because he wanted concrete action towards independence. the green party was like a last resort.
i think this is just the kind of person the pq needs to bring home to regain their relevance, and to that extent, it's a good choice. especially since it allows pspp not to have to campaign indefinitely (we will not know the date of the partial for a long time, but it is clear that the unofficial campaign starts now) in a single constituency and to continue its tour of the quebec.
there is no point in having a party, no matter which one, outrageously dominate the political scene.
legault, any humble and guy of the people can he project, or even really be, to be too solidly in place sticks to him the scent of a quasi-monarch who reigns by divine right over his people. the supreme powers of emergency measures have only added to all the helium that inevitably inflates his ego, it is human.
for my part the pq is already gone, the plq not far (we will see in the next elections)
> we have no interest in seeing the pq disappear
exact! they split the leftist separatist vote with qs, which is ultimately good for quebec.
have you done door-to-door for the ndp since?
what was on the menu?
he has always been a sovereignist.
> and saw it got nowhere when singh won the ndp leadership race
he had tried to stay in the ndp after singh became leader.
legault humble ?
we said that about the bloc too, and it seems that their business is going well today.
no? qs is not even an independentist, just if it suits them, they are opportunists on the independence side.
the best clue is their support for the federal npd, a party that is harmful to the sovereignist movement.
i volunteered for the 2015 election and then distanced myself. i was there mostly for thomas mulcair.
a bowl of soup and a glass of white wine.
that was after he had flirted with the bloc, precisely. worse when it was no longer working, he started having discussions with the greens.
qs would therefore be racist ???? s /
according to the echoes coming from congress, people voted no because they hold on to the party's prior position, which is to eliminate bill 21 altogether. in short, the proposal was in fact to moderate the party's position and to partially keep the law 21.
[
> sunday, at the end of discussions as long as they were lively, there was rejection of the two amendments suggested by these associations which, according to many, would have had the effect of diluting the party's position aimed at repealing the law altogether. rather, it was suggested that this legislative text of the legault government be amended to remove certain articles from it.
>  
> "we should not have had any debate on this issue, because it was already resolved, we have a position against the law," argued activist fehr marouf. it just serves to confuse the movement to give the impression that we are not directly against the law and that there are still things to discuss. there is nothing to discuss: it is a racist law, and we vote no! "
update: asked about the official position of québec solidaire, co-spokesperson gabriel nadeau-dubois affirms that although he is opposed to the principles of the law, the party has not yet decided what to do with it. 'he was elected, and a decision will be made by the 2022 poll.
[
wow do you do business with qs ...
oops, lol
i am very surprised. well then!
this position will follow qs during the elections like a ball. it will be very similar to the issue of the third link with the bloc during the federal election. by taking half measures such as those put forward during their congress not to touch bill 21, the leadership of qs, by taking a position that they will not militate against bill 21, is opening up to a dishonesty criticism of their own position. communication is not going to be clear and it will surely hurt them.
without having been there, hard to understand the reasoning of the thing. a law 21 without the ban on religious symbols / derogatory clause seems ok to me, i would have voted for the amendment.
after that, a law 21 without these provisions is of little use so as well to abolish it not?
they rejected this amendment because their activists hold a position aimed at purely and simply eliminating law 21 and that this proposal represented a moderation of this position because it proposed to keep the majority of law 21 by excising certain passages. the activists said "no, we reject everything !!!".
yeah. don't you remember their signs in 2018?
hey it's...
i understand that we can be against the law, but reducing it to “it's a racist law and that's all”, without the will to bring a minimum of nuance, is totally stupid.
and i say that by supporting qs for most of the issues raised by the party.
it seemed to me too! i almost had respect for qs for a moment, there was something wrong.
> a decision will be taken by the 2022 poll.
and if it's like the last time, they will officially change their position 3 months after the elections.
do not be surprised any more, the militants rejected this proposal to keep the preliminary position of qs which is to purely and simply eliminate the law 21. the proposal called for moderating the opposition of qs to the law 21.
[
the worst is the plq i think. for the plq, there is just no way to the price building if the election is about bill 21, i think it's that simple.
it is important to ban religious symbols in government. religion and state must be separate.
it's funny too, but being gay, the secularism of quebec is really important to me. in my opinion, it is ridiculous that religion is part of the constitution and referred to with race and sexuality. this is the reason why we need a law 21 in the first place. i will never support solitary quebec if it does not support secularism.
there is a lot of moral absolutism among qs militants. either you think like them, or you are a neoliberal far-right racist villain. between the two, there is only one step.
you take a hasty quote, summarized in a newspaper article and that in addition to the distortion. it's sure that with so many * twists *, where we just take what sells, the original thought seems absolutist. it is a lack of charity to interpret the position as "without nuances".
ah! it makes a lot more sense. the title was very misleading.
how come we didn't get an alert?
i also wondered, so i looked ... (instead of negotiating with you like some who must be fed up with alerts ???)
on [ marge( it says that the basic criteria are as follows:
>the child is under the age of 18;  
>  
>a belief that the child has been abducted;  
>  
>a belief that the child is in grave danger;  
>  
>information is available that may help locate the child and/or the abductor (e.g., description of the child, the suspect, or the vehicle driven by the abductor); and  
>  
>that the alert be issued within a reasonable amount of time from the moment of the abduction.
so it would seem that in this case, apart from age, the other criteria are not met ...
edith: it seems that i "took the aggro" on me ... lol
 would be a good start
divorce is a federal competency. you get married with the provincial government but divorce with the federal government.
troll
if all you've tried is the pre-made junk they sell in the grocery store, you don't know what unemployed pudding is.
a heretic, at the stake!
i wouldn't say it's not good, it's just ordinary i think ...
i agree with you. maybe i haven't tasted a real good jobless pounding in my life. it's just too dense and too sweet. like a bread soaked in sugar.
chek, you have the right to your opinion, and all tastes are in nature, but at the same time, fuck off big.
it's better on social assistance.
nice b8 m8
made with maple syrup, cream and milk, maybe even vanilla ice cream ... wow just so good
when you eat [chamiya] ( the unemployed pudding takes a solid landing.
it is probably unpopular as an opinion because it is good of the unemployed poudine.
no, i didn't even know that pre-made unemployment pudding existed.
that's my opinion too, it's just ordinary, a bit like eating a white cake.
bring me a black forest cake with kirsch, keylime pie, rum cake, pistachio macaroons.
chomeur pudding is in the same category as jello, flan or tapioca. i pass my turn.
in short, the pudding of 1%, it’s the job of the unemployed person now
personally, i prefer the real recipe with brown sugar than with maple syrup.
frankly, i think nanaimo bars come before chomeur pudding in my top 500 of the best desserts. but the chamiya i don't know.
christ, if you don't like unemployed pudding, leave it alone, you'll poison yourself.
> bring me a black forest with kirsch, keylime pie, rum cake, pistachio macaroons.
ok, you're that type.
[deleted]
the caq will decree that the only sport that we will have the doua to practice in 2022 is hockey ...
i like patrick lagacé normally but frankly this opinion was used for what?
it seems he wanted to demonstrate that before making the return of a national league hockey team which will contain a bunch of guys who are sincerely overpaid to push a pock, the government could leave this "priority" there to the private sector. and address issues that normally fall within its mandate.
haha can't wait to see canada's right-most audience trash on a communist band
could the group exist i think? there just remains a guy who still has his maturity of 20 years ago, the others have grown up seems to me, they have moved on.
they were supposed to play at the feq in 2020. their show was not postponed to 2022? i bought a ticket to see them at the ottawa bluesfest, and the show will take place on july 15, 2022. they no longer play in quebec?
> but more seriously a good revolution historically (namely that others have worked less well), is that good? what do you think?
i was okay in 2012, but it didn't get off the ground. so i got middle-class and became a wealthy landowner. short…
good luck, the garbage!
the same goes for the fans.
the current average ratm fan is probably a 40-year-old guy in an executive role who listens to 'killing in the name of' in his tank to get into it before a presentation to clients.
yes but they got together after 20 years for a tour in 2019 but because of the pandemic the festivals did not take place but the feq i believe with a grain of salt because i remember more exactly where i heard it said but a possible return to the plains could be considered. (on the radio seems to me).
you can check but i think they will come back in 2022 too!
fuck, i found out!
[
i have a few around me indeed 😅
it was [already confirmed by the feq that they would be there in 2022] ( , for the moment they are the only artists officially on the headline of the festival.
there is someone further down who confirmed that in fact, they will play for the feq in 2022. good for quebec!
i believe my kids have organized a machiavellian plan to wean me off my daily dose of rice krispies. so far, they have succeeded in disrupting the supply.
i hold back so as not to shop around for convenience stores in the hope of finding a box.
have you listened to season 2 of olivier bernard's podcast on ayahuasca?
i liked the one on the sweat ritual, but this new subject seems to lack fat around the bone and it's going in circles (i have reached episode 4).
is there a legal recourse to force employees in a business to be vaccinated? i know it messed him up with the healthcare workers ...
i woke up with a smell of fart in my covers .... not long after i went to poop .....
....  
coincidence !?
next grocery store, buy in three boxes. hide the other two in a tall cabinet or in a corner of the cold room / basement. kids are sleeping? it's rice krispies time, even if they eat the first box.
tactic used and proven here!
didn't you understand, there's more at the grocery !!!
shortage in canada, strike at kellogg, something like that.
the little christs are organized.
first the croquettes, then the rice krispies ?! something fishy is going on
> the quebecer now has a gold, two silver and one bronze medal after the first four 500m of the season. he is the only skater to have been on the podium each time this season.
congratulation! miscellaneous: i have already taken a summer course at uni and he was in the classroom.
i hope he has not reached his peak now a few months before the olympics.
> and the reigning world sprint champion, for whom the beijing olympics in february remains the big goal of the season, does not believe he has reached his peak yet.
i don't know to what extent the police will put resources into this kind of problem. you go to a flea market and 1 in 2 kiosks sell counterfeit ....
i always go with the logic that if something is too good to be true, it is too good to be true ....
cell phones are the same, many replicas of high-end models galaxy s21 ultra style very similar to the real ones but with cheap processors, low resolution screens, shady batteries and cameras worthy of 2012.
unlike fake iphones which are pretty obvious after 5 minutes of playing with them, it will take several days for someone unfamiliar with them to realize that their $ 2000 paid $ 1000 phone is actually a chinese $ 125 counterfeit.
85% of the time of maghrebian salespeople who meet you in a shady parking lot and whose trace you never find. the remaining 15% are people who have been deceived who resell knowing that they have been deceived or who resell thinking that their s21 ultra is really worse than their old iphone without knowing that it was a cross .
also avoid memory cards ...
that's what it gets when you're looking to pay a lot for nothing.
it creates a big market of people who are motivated to pay very little for "quality". the offer is exploding.
if you want the original products it is unfortunately up to you to confirm their authenticity or to buy them with the original supplier. in the fashion world it is accepted that if you don't have the money for the original product you are not the audience of the house, it is elitist but it is like that. this is why the haute couture houses do not seem to import with the counterfeits. if you want there are many ways to spot counterfeits, but going into a war on counterfeits would be so stupid as the war on drugs.
it would take real political will to put measures at the border. customs should be able to stop this kind of junk which can be quite dangerous.
i'm trying to sell a refurbished gaming pc. on more than 25 groups in addition to marketplace.
in 3 weeks, i only received scam attempts (from french accounts in france ?!), no interest in the article.
looks like marketplace and groups are fully populated with bots.
ok, i'm not sure what you meant by "helping brands". if this refers to quebec companies that manufacture their products locally or abroad in an ethical manner, i can understand. if, on the other hand, you're talking about big brands that use the slave labor of the third world, well it's a bit funny as a position. especially since counterfeit products are also made with slave labor and generally with materials of as poor quality as the originals.
bro, live your life and leave the world alone. it's not for you to play the contraband police.
when there is a doubt, there is no doubt!
100%. there are some that are easy to avoid. others who sell counterfeit moncler for $ 700. but practically speaking, they all deserve fines.
the police will never do anything about it, it's not criminal. and even if they were, they've got plenty of other bigger things to worry about than that.
in any case, to buy a cell on kijiji is already a feat. you have an average of 1 true ad (counterfeit or not) per page, the rest are screen repair ads, or photos of bundles of tickets for an ad to buy your cell phone
> worthy of 2012.
what do you have against 2012?
yeah, i didn't know that it also affected cellphones ...
i recently saw a facebook post from a guy who said he got drunk trying to buy a used cell on the marketplace.
it's a thought about it though.
it didn't take long to convince myself to ever consider buying there ... one in my class boasts of having made a pass with a cell that barely turned on and had wifi, i thought to myself that between the possible fakes and the world of the same it will be possible much.
the repair store in my area struggled to stock up on new models at the prices i wanted, only had used iphones in the $ 700-800 range, they suggest ... marketplace. phew. i can't wait for the shortages to be resolved.
it reminds me of my young days when i was accosted in parking lots to buy a sound system. it was so frequent that it was aggressive.
always the same principle: a high-end sound system sold at a ridiculous price accompanied by a far-fetched story of the seller.
because there's no memory, or is there stuff on it that you wish you'd never seen? :)
and hard drive .... we bought new only.
wow, those are some amazing shots ! i especially like the funiculaire one.
these photos are awesome! what awe-inspiring artistic sense. thanks for sharing.
the funiculaire one is really beautiful !!
gorgeous!
really great pictures. i appreciate that you took the time to photograph things that aren't typical (e.g. frontenac pictures) yet still showcase the beauty of the city. such a pleasant surprise.
amazing! thank you!
my favorite is the last one, really a lot of talent!
gorgeous pictures!
wow!
great shots! what focal length(s) were you using?
wow really nice shot and often outside of the usual tropes. thank you and look forward to seeing you again soon! :)
a unique take on sights that have already been photographed extensively! amazing work. hope you enjoyed your stay :)
is this cote-des-neiges? i get that location vibes from it, hahaha.
thank you!
i agree the funiculaire one is spectacular ... im gonna have to re-take a look at this place next time i go on the ''terasse''
thank you for the kind words!
i know right! such a common sight but yet very well photographed!
thanks =)
hey thanks so much that means a lot to me! i try to be creative in my photography wherever possible so i appreciate your kind words =)
i’m flattered you think they’re amazing! thank you.
i am 100% for total containment for the unvaccinated, no containment for those who are fully vaccinated. bam, yen is no more pandemic.
i saw an article this morning which is entitled "flexibility and holiday season: what fate for quebec at the dawn of a ** fifth wave **?"
can you stop adding waves when the wave isn't even over? there is no 5th wave. we are still in the 4th.
and what happens if we follow your wise instructions and that "surprisingly" bam, the pandemic persists just as much?
the vaccine does not prevent transmission ¯ \ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
can we really speak of waves when it comes to a virus that is getting closer and closer to being endemic?
the pandemic cannot persist if everyone is vaccinated champion
the seat belt does not prevent collisions ¯ \\ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
so much for me after the 2nd wave it became ridiculous to count exactly because of that. no one is saying this is the 140th wave of influenza. we're not going to stop having waves so i don't see the point in counting, especially since the next waves will become more and more insignificant.
and anyway as long as me even the 3rd wave was a bit of rubbish because the 2nd was not over when it supposedly started.
if we look at the curves from the start we have had 3 waves, not 4 and even less 5. if we add a wave each time there is a decrease and an increase, then we might as well say that we have reached the 7th wave ...
ok, champion. i see that the return to reality is going to be very brutal if it ever happens.
so its containment of the unvaccinated will not stop the pandemic. ¯ \ (ツ) / ¯
so preventing people who shout about road safety from driving will not reduce the amount of accidents on the road ¯ \\ (ツ) / ¯
your example does not hold water.
he has good tires.
except it's a slippery slope
without filter - sophie brochu ceo of hydro quebec
i would add the two episodes of dérive, from the pharmachien.
the episode with julien lacroix and marie pierre morin: x
you fool me - episode with jade bourdages. an episode that talks about the dpj. very relevant.
sports side: we chat with martin lemay / yannick levesques
oh there you speak
the two seasons, rather? in any case, i agree with you, stiff bin. the second particularly marked me.
there are two that have arrived ... and * generously * three that are at risk of arriving.
1- close
2 - vague, but i would say yes
3 - also close
4- no, we can count the brexit, but it was so stupid that all the parties across europe who wanted an "exit" stopped their plan and talked about it or went to hide it.
5 - arrived / in progress
6 - arrived at the beginning of the year 2000 but was very predictable, don't forget that there was an attack in the 90s in the parking lot of the twin towers
7- ongoing - undetermined
8- in progress
9 - happened but that too was very predictable, i'm even surprised that it didn't happen sooner
10 - starting - undetermined
3 it's not a prediction, it's always been
2 is no
1 - not yet, no, maybe another 10 years
2- no, contrary
3- no, not really yet
4- the exit process was a big deal, it discouraged many. semi.
5- semi, more related to covid / costs related to transport
6- on the contrary, it decreases
7- no, extreme climatic phenomena maybe, cancer no
8- energy is still inexpensive here, alternative sources are there, but obviously there is scrap in the middle east, as always, so semi-ish
9- pandemic yes, but the deaths are just 2.5% of what he predicted, so semi-ish
10- it whines loudly on twitter, but otherwise, no.
i could give it a nice 1.75 / 10
i don't know who wakes up in the morning and thinks it's going to be okay? it is to live in total ignorance.
i don't know if you've read the article but it's even worse in context
the 9 is extremely exaggerated. even if the official figure of 5 million is underestimated, we are very far from the predicted 200 million.
were these predictions for 2019-2021? pe not, that your 5 million deaths is not a counter-argument. maybe we'll have an even more serious epidemic ...
i count 4 that have arrived and three that are coming soon ...
9. we are very far from 200 million deaths, there are 5.15 million deaths.
3 is 100% arrived, russia is a kleptokracy. communists are indeed dead
of course, everything that is described is or will happen to some extent at some point. i may be too optimistic, but i think that humanity is evolving and improving all the same. we tend to exaggerate our fears for the future even if these fears are well founded. for example, the pandemic in 9 predicted 200m deaths which is a long way from covid-19.
it was already in progress. the proof is the kyoto protocol which was signed.
this is more or less true because the crimes have not increased. there was no wave of terrorism. most of the terrorist acts were isolated.
fear engendered a disproportionate response to the problem.
8 seems wrong to me. oil prices are reasonably priced when you factor in inflation. the price of coal is surprising, but nothing to do with the middle east.
whether with the tsar of the russian empire, the supreme leader of the communist party of the ussr or the president of the russian federation, russia is still a heritage state, indeed.
to say it's going to be fine when you have no idea is to lie.
this kind of sentence is strongly discouraged when you intervene with people in distress because you risk quickly losing their confidence when they realize that you are making promises that are not keeping.
he really has point 4 which has not happened, point 2 is too subjective. what technology? as if we counted the .com bubble of the end of the 90s, it is a categorical yes, but it picked up again in the following years.
yes, but we were lucky to have a vaccine quickly.
china is hiding their true numbers for a change and the virus is not ready to go.
🎶and it's not over, it's just a start🎶
the heart has its reasons and the sores. everything is available on youtube
the only two quebec things i have on my server:
- in a galaxy near you
- good cop, bad cop
and i'm going to have to find the bougons to look at it with an adult eye at least once.
black sequence
midnight in the evening, les bougons, 3x rien, les invincibles
19-2
am you the only one who loves "not adjusting your dryer"?
fortier
radio hell hello ????
a grenade with that? r-force. the debrouillards. bad change. are maybe not cult i just listened to this little one lol.
ramdam
district 31
infoman
19-2
life, life
omertà
the bougons
the parents
a boy a girl
the beautiful malaise
fisherman
plan b
the simpsons
runaway
blue moon
that
the invincibles
the heart has its reasons
taxi 0-22
tribu.com (it was a guilty pleasure and as far as i know it has completely disappeared. i would like to find it)
rumors
4 and a half
the little life
lance and account
in a galaxy near you
fraggle rock vf (seems to me it was vfq)
master key
the mini-putt on rds 😂
edit: i too am very much in mourning for ethor. it was a national treasure to have that.
feet in the margin
the parents
chick'n swell.
phylactère cola.
he is not from quebec but having the simpsons qc version in hd would be nice
that
omerta i, ii, iii
emergency room,
scoop
jmp time
in a galaxy near you, radio enfer, la petite vie
i've been looking for the first seasons of "once upon a time in trouble" for years, but no internet traces. if anyone ever managed to find and archive that would be absolutely amazing.
bob gratton my life my life, l'gros show.
it would go even faster if we were left alone now that we have the vaccination passport. let us do what we want inside, we are protected and we have done our part of the deal.
if people saw that normal life would resume when you get vaccinated, it would help a lot more and it would get vaccinated even more. but there you vaccinate yourself, you still have to wear a mask, it was not until last week to be able to dance again (seriously ...), alcohol still cannot be sold after a certain time (it is what does this have to do with the covid?).
in short, as usual, it is the stick rather than the reward, and people who are recalcitrant see no benefit. we have all the pieces of the puzzle to do this better, but no. apparently this is too much to ask.
'recalcitrant'
gang of idiot journalists. i am doubly vaccinated pi people who decide not to take the vaccine, well it is their crissti of choice. let go of dividing the people and learn to live with a virus that will never go away.
recalcitrant, as if it's people who don't really want to cooperate.
it is boring to say but the newspaper of montreal and quebec is more what it was.
i'm doubly vaccinated and can't even wait inside, masked and sitting apart in the cafeteria and having to show them my passport estimate to enroll my son in his tennis class.
its 16 ti kids playing tennis in the gym. the 16 parents are sitting in our cars, outside in the school parking lot.
esti of furious madness.
[deleted]
very agree. let us go with the measurements.
> gang of idiot journalists
their "crissti of choice" potentially puts the people around them at risk ... you get that right?
not so fast with your lab theory
recalcitrant, recalcitrant
adjective and noun
who is rebellious to do something, who resists.
i find the word very well chosen. there is a global pandemic that is killing millions of people and what the government is asking, to protect the population, is to get vaccinated. there are holdouts who resist on all kinds of issues, it's not bad or illegal, but these people resist and rebel.
[deleted]
on the other hand, for coaches and officials, it must be the dream of not having the squeals of parents helicopters present during matches and training.
classes are much better without parents
especially when you can be in a show room or a jamed packed cinema no stress. no squealing of meaning
have you seen a lot of fake passports? are these trafficked qr codes like? twenty a week is a little and a lot at the same time!
criss that they have no allure -_-
mingle with your little navels and you'll be fine. how many hypocrites here came home to work knowing they had the flu or the gastro before the covid? ben of the world who have no common sense but with the covid 19 oh my gods for example.
there are plenty of hypocrites on this sub and in general but when it comes to covid oh no.
do you know if josée has a phobia or that jacques cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons?
the newspaper does not and puts everyone in the same basket.
if t vaccinated your fear of what?
you understand whether you transmit vax or not .. the vaccine not as magical as promised. natural immunity is best and it is proven. right?
you are not recalcitrant if your conditions do not allow it.
there is a difference there.
do we understand that the word chosen is to attract people and nothing more.
you have to start your sentences with "yo!" like a teenager from watatatow even though you're 35.
which neighborhood? the life you have depends a little on the neighborhood, for real
montreal is paradise, rents are affordable, public transportation is efficient and covers the east of the island particularly well.
you feel safe there, no problem going for a walk in the street at night in montreal-nord or rivière des prairies.
and if you're a little rascal who still has a car, you will easily be able to find a place for yourself when you want to go and buy items that would otherwise be complicated to transport by public transport.
take advantage of my lucky one, no two cities are the same!
welcome home !
/r/montreal
life there is sweet and peaceful.
if you dodge the bullets it's going pretty well.
if you are more comfortable in english it should be fine
i feel targeted...
yo, that's right
or "'t'sup?"
indeed.
rosemont, verdun, plateau, mile-end = nice
rdp, pat, rock bottom = phew.
> montreal is paradise, the rents are affordable, public transportation is efficient and covers the east of the island particularly well.
in fact, there are few places in the world that have better public transportation than eastern montreal.
except maybe the west of the island.
lol, nice
[deleted]
a topic of the same would be closed in 3 minutes tops lol
i grew up in pat and it was really shit.
you fuck your mother son of a bitch
/s😝
he just forgot his / her
me too, a pointo guy. it was average.
fortunately, it's worse today than it was in my time. i can consider that i had a fairly relaxed pointo life compared to the people i knew who are still there ....
and off we go for a ride!
2019 wants to have his news
i, who was going to block the train to protest against gendered railways, will have to review my strategy.
nothing new under the sun
choo choo!
toyota = best kitty i do 1000 km per week with a 2004 echo that i paid $ 700 and it's not even close to dying.
corolla (preferably beige) thank you good evening
toyota corolla, camry, yaris you can't go wrong,
also, and this is going to be more controversial, there are often low-mileage 15+ year-old buicks sold for a pittance. in my opinion these are good deals.
edit: shell
corolla or pontiac vibe ... check the rust on the frame below the tank, don't touch it if it's too rusty. also, it may be worth taking a manual one if you want to save some cash. i didn't drive manual before, but it can be learned very quickly when you don't have the choice to drive your car.
a jeep and a trailer subscription
ma.mazda 3 2nd gen has reached almost 400,000km. so far so good.
quite reliable mazda and cheaper resale value than honda / toyota. so at $ 3000 you can maybe find something worse.
what do we think of old dodge caravans here? there are a lot of them for sale for cheap!
chrysler /s
it's not complicated, buy you a camry a corolla
do you have good risk tolerance?
i like to have 4 wheel drive (4x4) for the winter here it is ideal in my opinion .. i had 4 used subaru which served me a long time .. and the parts are easy to find ..
pontiac vibe, it's logical, quite comfortable and you won't believe everything that fits in there, really it's a toyota matrix, even mechanical but a pontiac body, often really less expensive than the matrix. available awd for the winter but these versions are more touch on maintenance. the basic models are not killable.
a good electric bike
he wants a big tank, he says "comfortable boat", so we disqualify the echo or even the corolla.
for $ 3000 his choices are therefore an old camry or maybe a buick. i would pretty much avoid all the rest of the $ 3000 "big tanks".
edit for op: [le v'la ton char] ( un camry v6 for $ 2,500, toyota's best engines. 255,000km and still good for another 200,000km so well maintained.
the echo is not killable indeed! just the rust and the muffler which are problems from experience
yeah, go to toyora, think that's my best bet. the only thing is that the echo physically it really doesn't speak to me lool but that's just my pride as a male talking haha
a connoisseur of r / personalfinancecanada i see
i'm a toyota man in my heart, but honda is also a good choice. fit, civic, accord or even a crv. all good choices. at $ 3000 with the market right now, you don't have much though. maybe crank up your budget to $ 4-5000 and look for something with some maintenance done lately (new brakes, suspension, bushings etc)
15-year-old tanks in quebec are getting tough on the rust side
pontiac vibe all the way. it's a toyota engine, but the prices closer to pontiac. lots of room when you lower the seats (two bikes fit easily without even dismantling anything.) i've had this since 2010 i think and i'm just sad that the next one will surely not be that because they have been making more since. years.
the revenge or the randolph
l'aquarium
"escape" scenarios (there are several)
imax if there are good films / the clap is also cool
the rides at the galeries de la capitale are still fun haha
the museum of civilizations (there's an exhibition on poop at the moment haha), the museum of fine arts
there are several bars with not worse themes: the marshall you can play bowling, the macfly to play arcades for free
go see shows
quickly too, that's what comes to mind
the payback! if you like board games.
indoor climbing is nice.
revenge, aquarium
revenge
theatre piece  camping
délire escalade (there are three, and the one in beauport is self-belaying so it's the one i recommend the most). you just have to follow the instructions not to sprain your ankle xd
le bora parc in valcartier. indoor water play park.
there are also quite a few indoor skating rinks, such as galleries.
i co-sign all these suggestions!
found. <3
a plate from new mexico, it flashes more. i hope they will find the little one quickly: /
i woke up to it and when i tried to read it all i saw was "** diablo **".
be.
i wish with all my heart that we find the little one as soon as possible.
i take the leap every time but when we see the children found safe and sound, i tell myself that it's so worth it :)
she has been found!
man, i can watch anything get shredded in a shredder, but imagining domestic dramas makes me squeal to the ground without even trying. the people who work in there are a few things.
it's always dramatic but it works ...
i don't know what time it struck for the world in montreal but i knew about it like the minute it was canceled ...
in gatineau i received nothing ... but i receive alerts from toronto. who knows...
i had this alert yesterday from my phone, from what i know is that the girl was found safe.
we don't need an extra post.
[removed]
it is on that the border crossings will block
not even death can save you from me
stay awhile and listen
new diablo game confirmed.
i just received it at 11 p.m. ...
i am also in gatineau and i received the alert in my cell and on tv last night ... about fifteen minutes later the child had already been found.
it is the life of a human. we don't care
oh yes, the famous rideau canal in quebec…
come on, am i too frozen? i do not understand the title!
striking, this color palette.
what talent, well done! i'm curious: where is the place reproduced in the last one? i have a little penchant for autumn landscapes.
[deleted]
the painting is beautiful. i wondered the meaning of the first sentence of your title on the other hand, but i see you posted in english first then the english title makes sense so it must be the translator you used that makes weird sentences xd
it's very beautiful, you have a good eye for light!
beautiful hogwarts drawing
need a chateau frontenac with natas painting!
i love!!!
i like!
the second is my favourite!
the first is beautiful in criss, i buy it
great ! i love the color composition in the first picture. sounds like a comfortable evening. congratulation. :)
nice
worse the russian flag?!?!
i recognize other places in ottawa / gatineau there. it's beautiful, but not exactly quebec.
the post was shared in english by op primarily, so it's probably a fast eng to fr google translation.
thank you!
pretty sure it's the lady aberdeen bridge and saint-françois-de-sales church in gatineau!
at this point, is there a public figure who has not received death threats?
no matter the political alignment or the defended causes, it may have made sense.
accused of thinking what everyone thought in human history until a few years ago.
all this for saying that women exist and that we shouldn't call women "menstruating people"?
or i missed something.
"accused of transphobia, jk rowling says she received hate messages from people who disagree with her words"
a threat must have an intention otherwise it's just words. and i challenge you to find one situation where an anonymous internet death threat led to an attempted murder.
we must stop making news with death threats.
except that when we say "accused of transphobia, jk rowling says he received hate messages from people who disagree with his words"
well, it's not news because as long as you are a public figure and you give your opinion on the internet, you will receive hate messages.
edit: sorry to peter the bubble
worse in the history of mankind it has always been thought that women should not have the same rights as men. this is what is fun with humanity, we are able to evolve beyond the cro-magnon stadium.
several other little tips as well, it's not fair for this tweet.
[ 
in any case, there is no justification for these threats or intimidation.
bah, there's a whole story surrounding that. i'll let you watch this and make up your own mind:
she advocates for anti trans laws / for anti trans groups in the uk. she militated against mixed toilets by saying that men would take the opportunity to go to the attackers (which no study / statistics shows) to then write a book where the villain is precisely a man who will disguise himself as a woman to go and attack women in a toilet ?!
every action that she does as such is not really transphobic. it could be a coincidence that her villain is a cross-dresser who infiltrates the women's bathroom. but when you add up all his ben shapiro releases "sex is real. facts doesn't care about your feeling" it's hard not to tie it all together.
>what did rowling say about single-sex spaces?
>
>rowling, a domestic violence survivor, said she was worried that “the new trans activism” was eroding women and girls’ rights to single-sex spaces by “offering cover to predators”.
>
>“i believe my government is playing fast and loose with womens and girls’ safety,” she wrote.
>
>“when you throw open the doors of bathrooms and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels he’s a woman ... then you open the door to any and all men who wish to come inside.”  
>  
>why the furore?
>
>rowling is unhappy that scotland plans to relax the law so that trans people can change their birth certificates without having to provide a medical diagnosis.
>
>trans people will still have to live in their acquired gender for six months before a gender recognition certificate is granted.
>
>she said the reform will “in effect mean that all a man needs to ‘become a woman’ is to say he’s one”.
>
>scotland’s proposed reforms would align it with countries like ireland, portugal, norway and argentina that allow trans people to change their legal gender without any mental health diagnosis.
>
[
the book in question:
>jk rowling has once again come under fire from transgender rights activists, this time for her new crime novel, which features a cross-dressing serial killer.
>
>published tuesday, "troubled blood" by robert galbraith -- rowling's crime writer pseudonym -- is the fifth installment in the cormoran strike series.
>
>an review of the novel in britain's daily telegraph on sunday described the "meat of the book" as an investigation into the cold case of a missing doctor who is believed to have fallen victim to a murderous cross-dresser.  
>  
>"one wonders what critics of rowling's stance on trans issues will make of a book whose moral seems to be: never trust a man in a dress," reviewer jake kerridge wrote.
edit: before downvoting can the world explain why? when i answer the question with quotes from rowling?
she clearly lacks compassion for trans people. second, there is no good reason for these activists to intimidate him like this.
this frank minority harms movement and dialogue, jk rolling too. it is an ambush.
yep, social media is so beautiful.
whether it is online or in the face, it is clearly against the criminal code.
[
i agree with you that "it's just words", everything is "just words". with that, go say a certain word in n right in front of black people telling them that "it's just a word", we'll see if your opinion changes afterwards.
it may be "just words", there is a certain framework like this.
we're talking about a view of biology / sociology, i don't believe rowling is against equal rights. this is what makes this outrage against her so absurd.
thank you. yeah ... i don't really know what to think here. it's a bit extreme to treat her like this ...
thanks but ... i'm a little afraid to read too much on this subject. the reaction of the wokes often makes me lose hope in humanity (the ability to empathize with others and have serious discussions in which the two parties have different opinions).
nevertheless, i take the plunge. i'll be back!
well the case with single sex places, it still has a point. isn't that just what happened in the whole weespa affair?
unless i misunderstood the situation
never said it shouldn't be criminal. i just said it's not news. big difference. and your last paragraph i'll spare you from answering that.
we are talking about definitions that have evolved following studies ... the classic "facts doesn't care about your feeling" while the facts / studies done show that trans people exist and that even if physically they are such or such sex their brain responds as their gender rescued.
nobody says that a person's sex does not exist. but when you look at the who, the american health organization, harvard, etc. there is a scientific consensus that a person's sex and gender are two separate things and that what we defined by reference to a person's sex was in fact a misunderstanding of the difference between sex and sex. kind. sex is how your body is formed and gender is the social perception of yourself / others.
it's correct. it's still important to have the facts before forming an idea, you're doing well. :)
even though i find that she is still very transphobic in some ways, the reaction to it is completely out of proportion.
there is no link between aggression and regulations in the toilet. a man who wants to go assault someone in a toilet is clearly going to wait until there is just one victim / not going to disguise himself ...
>opponents of gender identity inclusive public accommodations nondiscrimination laws often cite fear of safety and privacy violations in public restrooms if such laws are passed, while proponents argue that such laws are needed to protect transgender people and concerns regarding safety and privacy violations are unfounded. no empirical evidence has been gathered to test such laws’ effects.  
>  
>[
this person: [ 4.3( images.radio-canada.ca/q_auto,w_960/v1/ici-premiere/16x9/tum--khate--od--trans.png) who publicly said not to be operated on during the photo would not be legally admitted in women's toilets. she will never be asked for her driver's license to access a women's toilet. on the other hand, a lot of cis women don't like to dress in a feminine way.
so these kinds of laws ultimately often discriminate against cis women more than trans women. "butches" find themselves having to prove that they are women / get called out when their backs are short with their hair constantly short by women who are stressed by the media for absolutely nothing. [ outre( news / uk / butch-lesbian-public-toilet-women-abuse-government-review-gender-neutral-facilities-833787)
what do you do with transgender people who don't have or aren't planning to have surgery? these people clearly will not go in the section of the genre they don't identify with and are not welcome in the other section. should we ban them?
the gang of helicopters screeching soap at the guy who falls from the second floor to grab his sweater. a classic
edit: link 
the guy from "a little oué" who set shit on the mcdo!
a beautiful longueuil mule. he also plays the violin, he wears black jeans and off-white shirts.
barbies rest bar grill!
my medallion touches my penis
i don't know if this falls into this category but i would go with [the battle of farador] (
[palourde royale] (
i will never forget this summer we spent. i swear! never forget
jean-luc mongrain and the education system in quebec
not brad!
all the steps of dans une galaxie (garage door night, etc.)
all the real perronisms (it does not go with the back of the dead hand, etc.)
[the story of the knife thrower from denis lévesque] (
[the challenge of the force 10 - "i'm going to burp a nasty disgust"] (
caillou or roche, the stupid show!
a skidoo, can you leave that in the yard?
the yos against the hairs
the ti juices for lunch
the dude with a fly in his timbit.
lqjr song
the star wars kid was from quebec!
[the royal clam.] (
[l’œuvre de guylaine gagnon]( that's it, that's all.
[an unforgettable girl] (
[the work of mario benjamin] (
[so famous for gi joe] (
[sexy body de g]( joe 
[no money no candy,](
[nipple biting by wild cats from st-quentin island.] (
c’tivident…
the s'quat 'november in the evening.
the gay violinist,
jonnycrying 
jon lajoie is from quebec, i think?
xqc is pretty much a meme in my opinion
special mention for philippe lalanne who sings never forget
edit: i forgot my favorite, not really a meme but it was such a mess when we were young: tom and his friends, you killed my bonome ...
pfk kid
for me memory of a veteran "i was all toasted" it's the best .. just too powerful when you think about it 😳
it's not true that i'm going to put my quality of life and passions on hold because of my job. my former boss had no personal life and worked every day until 9 p.m. and also weekends and holidays. i was so uncomfortable asking for just one day off…
i don't understand the pride of a lot of gen x / boomers when they say they work all the time. it's no feat to never refuse anything and not take time for yourself. in addition, it always ends up catching up with us when we lead such an unhealthy lifestyle.
> confined, without the artifices of our consumer society, life has slowed down. it had to be furnished. for some, taking the time to cook has become a pleasure rather than a chore. others have rediscovered the pleasure of playing with children, of going for a walk with a loved one.
> 
> what used to be a luxury has become part of a new routine.
> 
> the list of accommodations is long. she offered an epiphany. time is not just money, it is also peace of mind, happiness, life.
the people who work the hardest are those who work too much.
chronicle well written and narrated, which does not say anything that we do not already know unfortunately
all the same very astonished to see a text of the jdem which screwed up and ridiculed an issue claimed by quebec solidaire.
but hey, a text by martineau ridiculing the idea of 35 hours, within a week or 2, would not surprise me.
not that i am personally like that, but i have the beginnings of an answer.
there are people who have a strong need for accomplishment and who are not able to get their dose in their spare time. it is therefore not dramatic for them to work long hours because they derive happiness from it.
they will probably find the benefits of your personal time in certain aspects of their professional life (rewarding interpersonal relationships, simpler tasks that make you relax, trips to take a break, etc.).
> i don't understand the pride of a lot of gen x / boomers when they say they work all the time.
they all end up in burnout or on anti-depressants. i never understood what was the point of giving your life to a company that won't even hesitate for 2 seconds to stall you out on the day when an excel report shows that they can do without you.
> i don't understand the pride of a lot of gen x / boomers when they say they work all the time.
when i started working 30 years ago, it took 4-5 months to find a job. let's say it marks ...
yeah but it quickly got super heavy and cunning to deal with a workaholic boss that made me feel super guilty for not accepting a workload comparable to his. she also had the nerve to offer preferential treatment to some of my colleagues because they shut their mouths and agreed to work overtime almost every day.
at some point it will make me feel like shit for things to which i was entitled. i don't feel guilty for two cents for slamming the door last month after the end of a really intense work cycle. i said to myself: "it's not true that i'm going to suffer this stress every year".
indeed, we have to put it in context. in the old days if you weren't following the parade there were people in line to take your place. but times have changed and some have not yet realized it.
i think it's purely logistical, more advantageous to have hr fill in payroll twice a month rather than 4 times a month ... so the company tries to find a balance between low administrative costs (ex: payroll monthly) and convenience for the employee (eg weekly pay). correct me if im wrong.
the advantage is that it does half the work for the payroll.
source: have already done the payroll for a company.
every week.
i had always been paid every 2 weeks before. i get paid every week, i think that's great.
but yes, from an administrative management point of view, it is easier to pay your staff every 2 weeks.
i have already seen places that they receive 12 pays per year.
in the end it doesn't change anything. but if you are used to planning for the week, you have to adjust and rather plan for two weeks ... an amount twice as large but that you have to stretch over two weeks.
i would say the difference is not huge but tell yourself it's always better to have $ 100 now than in a week. so on my side i always prefer more by the week, but as i say it's quite marginal
\> why does a company choose to do payroll one way or the other?
the company pays a fee every time it pays you a paycheck. it is therefore more profitable for them to do it every two weeks. some are even paid monthly.
if memory serves, 2 weeks is the maximum allowed by law.
there are some companies that are legally obliged to pay employees every week (eg in mechanics).
you have to be careful with payments / automatic debit, me, when i change employer, i make sure that my payments go through the day after my payday, so on my payday, i can check. from experience, i have no faith in employers.
all the firms that do automatic debits will be happy to change the date of the debit at your request, except bell canada, they are motherfuckers at bell, you should never do business with bell, it's bell and well some big bell shit!
i would bet on a question of bank charges on your employer's side. if he pays $ 0.05 per deposit, multiply that by the number of employees and it ends up making a nice amount.
on the employee's side, honestly, that doesn't change anything except that you have to plan your payments accordingly.
the benefit is for the employer! it costs less with the pay system.
although i prefer 2 weeks, technically it's disadvantageous for the workers. the sooner you get your pay, the sooner you can invest it.
it is more profitable for a company the longer the payroll is spaced. because while they keep the money owed to the employees, they can fund it and have a trust that plays with these cash amounts to increase the monetary return of the employees. it also requires less management and transactions if there are fewer payrolls per year.
so i would like it to be paid "bi-weekly" (twice a month, like the 1st and 16th). twenty-four pays per year instead of twenty-six. it would be so much easier to fit into a budget!
it's just the intellectual laziness of the companies + the fact that they can invest the money longer.
this is why companies encourage "pre orders", not only does it give them a better idea of the amount of product they will need in the future but they can invest the money immediately and make 1% to 3 % more profit.
it makes sense :)
what brought you to work in a payroll department?
it's not natural, let's put it as a domain.
nobody says to himself: bigger, i'm going to pay
to be paid monthly? 😳
the worst is twice a month, so the pay never arrives the same day, and when it's by check, as it takes 4 days to clear, you're often in the wrong to pay your rent.
bell
bingo.
i like it when the month of three pay arrives!
also stuff from france tho
no need for slang dictionary, just knowing "faque", "tabarnak" and all the possible meanings of "malade" & "écoeurant" and you should be good.
nah it was a different one
it's a bit jumbled up this site. it lacks where the expressions come from. true quebecisms are drowned in expressions that are not really.
"unlock the cock". truly?
yes this one thank you!
the "tayeule" can also be used.
it had a search bar
lol why are you getting downvoted for saying this is not the site you were thinking of
are you in his head to know exactly what he is talking about?
some people on this sub are a joke
there is an upvote / downvote system, but the site is a lot harder to navigate than before and i think they removed the region of origin.
but it's not because you don't use an expression that it doesn't exist on the other hand
pis diablo?
glad to hear it
so much the better
always such a good game with a loyal community of players.
the polygraph test is pseudoscience.
this is true, but if i trust the article, jolivet was convicted largely on the basis of the testimony of an informer, but there seems to be some indication that this testimony was false. this is something that i find a little more worrying.
also, i remember having already seen this photo of jolivet at the door of his cell in another radio-canada report, which i think was about elderly prisoners.
i live in a city where they have reduced waste collection. it's magical thinking to believe that it reduces waste. it forces the world to bring large waste to the municipal dompe in their private vehicle, to do false recycling, to put waste in inappropriate places, etc. all this to save 1% of the city budget, wtf?
collection every two weeks is boring, personally after 1 week the bin is full ... or almost ... recovery and emptying.
i don't think i produce that much waste, i have a family and lots of animals ... i make compost in my yard and that of the city ... tse you up my taxes crazy and you reduce the services , oh yes worse you give yourself a salary increase too, damn beautiful gang of medieval wren the mayors ....
the job of a mayor is to make sure that the garbage is collected, that the sewers are working, that the potholes are patched, that the buses / metros arrive on time, that the traffic is fluid ... in short, the flat job, which only interests flat people and the salt of the earth.
and unfortunately for us, the system is made so that the only people who come forward and who have political and media success these days are the people who least want to talk about these issues, because it is not. badly less interesting, glamorous, and practical than inaugurating patents, taking trips, taking beautiful photos, returning favors, or preparing for their careers.
not only that, but municipal politics is the one that has the most direct impact on our lives, and at the same time the one in which we are least interested as citizens and voters.
it doesn't take into account family realities either. my retired neighbors, the others who live alone .. they could complete the recycling in 1 month and ditto the garbage bin, so for them, that it goes 1x / 2 weeks is fine. for families, even by recycling, by composting, it's really limited: /
[there is no oil change day in amsterdam] ( to say the least to popa.
it's boring at first but we adapt quickly. the world who thinks this will change nothing has a right to their opinion but through experience, people compost and recycle more and reduce their waste. it is also less expensive for the city.
good practices are developing gradually with policies like this ...
meanwhile in amsterdam, they don't have a garbage collection day. they have large bins driven into the ground, with compactors where residents can deposit their waste. when it's full, a truck comes to collect it.
when the bin is full and there is 1 week left before collection, the definition of what is recycled becomes broader.
yeah, here they spend every two weeks for garbage and weeks for recycling and compost. the idea, i guess, is to force people to recycle more but i'm pretty sure all that accomplished is recovery with a lot of garbage in it which will end up in the garbage because it costs too much. expensive to sort.
i am in the countryside. at 2 weeks in summer, no worse. at 4 weeks in winter ... i have 4 children, i recycle and compost, the bins do not provide.
we can yell at the municipality, it's the mrc that decides.
calvary.
yeah, my oil changes go every two weeks. on the other hand, it is * always * a collection of bulky items.
faque i find myself putting my bin and garbage bags next to it, because with a family 1 bin every two weeks it doesn't work. worse, the compost and recycling are full too.
all it does is i have vermin ripping up my bags.
this is a very good idea.
... and again, at my place the recycling is also every two weeks ...
... and the compost bin has a lightning capacity of 45l ...
lord, i thought i was in a bad mood, i didn't know what i would do ... i would buy a second baccalaureate i guess ..
likewise, but in exchange they gave us a very small bin of compost which they collect every week.
the environmental argument does not hold water since there are always two collections per week. except that one of these is rather used to pick up a small bin instead of a large one.
the one who can barely stand alone the ...
in several municipalities it does not work. they're going to pick up just one.
that's what i did. for now they are emptying it even though it is not identifying with the correct numbers.
if they stop emptying it the solutions are not numerous, go and carry it small bag by small bag in the bins of the city. who are always overflowing.
and what does the city do when it's overflowing? post on spotted not to do that, bad citizens!
they literally sell the compost, that's why it's weekly. this is also what makes the accepted / refused materials different from home composting.
the ecological aspect of composting is real, but when a corrupt city razes green spaces in a natural environment to build condos for its friends with brown envelopes, it would surprise me that the primary purpose of composting is the environment: it is especially the profitability of the thing which is attractive in my opinion. but hey, another debate ...
> a low-speed police chase then began. very different from action film chases, the driver drove slowly, taking care to stop at all red lights during his escape, even with a patrol car behind him, flashing lights and sirens on.
lol, i imagine the scene. a bloody drink driving repeat offender, however. no consequences at least against pedestrians or other cars.
> at the end of this incredible story, another police officer went to mcdonald's to pick up the order from the police who had to leave promptly and who had not yet had time to have a bite to eat.
ah, vat. always the needless attention to detail ...
only 90 day license suspension for a repeat impaired driving offense?
it doesn't seem like much trouble to me, doesn't it?
lol they called in reinforcements for the mcdo command!
if you've been banged twice while intoxicated, you should lose your license for life. not only are you an alcoholic but you are also crisply stupid and you don't learn from your mistakes.
frankly, if the stuffed guy drives at 10 mph and stops at red lights, he's less dangerous than some sober drivers.
[low speed chase.](
[low speed chase.](
[low speed chase.](
the paragraph quoted was hilarious, though.
i imagine that in his head, if he looked cautious, maybe the police would be like 'meh, it looks ok' and then go back and get their mcdonald's: d
"hungry police officers".
hungry ...
a high% of "news" in the 21st century is at best news, at worst mere entertainment.
the 90-day suspension is before the trial.
the judge then imposes a generally higher sentence and conditions to take back the license.
you are quite right. twice and he's only just beginning his driving career. besides, it doesn't count the other times or he just didn't get fat.
the laws should be much tougher.
mythbusters; can you drive after drinking moonshine? (with a twist)
[
thanks for the memories.
[it's not news, it's fark](
ah ok thank you !
quebec city? quebec city, thank you
at least 70 degrees that!
ayoye check me out the beautiful place to build a highway. / s
i enjoyed visiting old quebec so much.
it warms my heart :')
it lacks bridges
/s
[ danemark( i agree, but it comes from there haha
i would say -14 ... according to the snow.
a highway?
try a tunnel!
**think big esti!**
it lacks pixels in tk
remindme! 5 apr 2022
i will be messaging you in 4 months on [**2022-04-05 00:00:00 utc**]( to remind you of [**this link**](
[**1 others clicked this link**]( to send a pm to also be reminded and to reduce spam.
^(parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](
*****
|[^(info)]( reminders)](
|-|-|-|-|
as if it took a year and a half to pay off a purchase. they are trying to have the world wear out ...
formal notice, see if there are others like you, if so, there is always the option of class actions etc.
thank you for your answers ! here is what i will do:
1. call them on their facebook hoping that things will move
2. threaten them to make a formal notice if i do not receive the promised payment
3. perform the chargeback procedure
4. send a real formal notice
.
.
.
87. slip a disk of frozen piss under their head office door
contact the bank, explain the situation and request a chargeback on the card.
personally, as soon as the government gave the money to the airlines, i registered on the air transat site to request the reimbursement and they reimbursed me after a month.
formal notice and they have 14/21 days to respond.
same situation and same dates for my family, exactly. they had their full refund this summer, i can't remember the exact date.
call the bank, request a cashback.
sends a formal notice to you by registered mail. give them x weeks to repay. if they don't, sue them for small claims. they are fucking kidding you.
if it was you who paid for the paid (ie, paid from quebec, go through quebec, if it's your parents, there is something similar in france)
they are not obliged to reimburse all plane tickets whose journey passes through a european airport, eu rules?
that's why you received messages from the airlines that said not to reimburse with visa / mastercard.
pcq y'ais never repay you.
the day after my flight canceled, i spent 8 hours online and declared a fraud .. that ended up being the case.
air transat reimbursed me this summer for a vancouver-paris return ticket purchased at the beginning of march 2020 before the start of containment. the flight should have been for july 2020. at first it was a credit then they offered the refund. after me i bought in dollars from canada.
haven't you received an email from air transat?
have you tried their facebook?
we had booked with air transat and we were reimbursed.
i have the impression that our laws in quebec have well protected citizens, but not those outside: /
i have a similar problem with air canada .. kelowna had forest fire problems during the summer and my flight was canceled 3 times in a row. the hotel was not paid for these 3 evenings and i wanted to cancel everything and go home (they canceled kelowna when i had just made a connection flight ..) since the next flight would have been in 2 days ..
so since they mont flown de mtl in toronto and toronto back to mtl, they consider my tickets used even if i never made it to my destination. will not reimburse you "so i expect another 3 months to respond to my second message.
yes i find it disgusting, especially since it was a company that i esteemed a little.
it annoys me to have recourse to legal procedures but if it is the only way ...
the formal notice is a threat, send it directly without telling them.
i just checked, that said my parents ordered via their bank on european soil, i don't know if they can intervene with canadian companies :(
normally if, and this is the problem, in our exchanges they do not say "no we will not reimburse you" but "there are delays". deadlines which are 3 months maximum and my request was initiated ... in 2020
quebec laws did not protect absolutely anyone who claimed reimbursement from an airline. still today neither the consumer protection office nor the ficav paid a single cent to travelers. no more than travel insurance. all these beautiful people waited for the airlines to reimburse. with good reason, moreover, since it was up to the airlines to reimburse, they were the ones who had the travelers' money. airlines finally coughed up refunds ... a year later. but like the parents of mojo-geogeo, there are some who are still waiting. note that air canada immediately reimbursed its european customers before canadians because the european union forced it to do so, long before the canadian government woke up and put pressure on the airlines. and i don't believe that the chargeback will work: the bank will say that it's up to air transat to reimburse. what is true ...
you should have called your credit card a long time ago, like june 2020. now good luck, you may end up with transat credits.
reeeepost
acab he was asking for esti help!
the other post was deleted by admins.
at least this time it's an article.
so much the better it was disinformation, truncated video.
[deleted]
i remember that the spvm distributed data via [data quebec] ( and [data open] (
obviously, there are other sets of data, one of my favorites is that of road accidents which allowed me to confirm several places that i considered dangerous and where several accidents take place even in optimal conditions.
data quebec, an open data site. you won't have all of it, however
thank you so much
there is something funny that sherbrooke is on the list but not laval.
thanks for the precision.
it's by census metropolitan area. laval is in the montreal metropolitan area.
map of the area:
it's 5 or 6 homicides in laval last year (2020) lower than the previous year if i remember correctly. many are linked to organized crime.
a good thing. already putting parking on the most useful lots is not an incredible idea, if in addition it was parking, it would have made good use of our taxes.
it's the rem, it brings you closer to the city center like never before. imagine the real estate development with local shops and various housing that they could have done there.
well no, they will do as in toronto and subsidize the suburbs even more with public money.
this is the perfect opportunity to increase density there, not to promote free urban development and the lack of housing.
asti that life is beautiful when you live on the south shore and you work from home !!!
this is what happens when the caisse must make money.
fuck the parking lot! build a pedestrian area around the station! no, but parking next to a high-capacity transport network. geriboire, are we in the 1950s?
well. it's not all bad after all.
fortunately, the rem is already generating a lot of projects. just looking at panama, it's going to be pretty revolutionary (i hope) what's going to happen there.
i would have a depression if it was my case because asti that it is flat (in all directions) the south shore
imagine what it is like when you live in montreal!
oh no! now we have a new structuring transport system, the first in 60 years, developed in record time! why is capitalism like this 😡😡😡
no. this is what happens when the commuter's free lunch must come to an end.
ah yes, condo towers, beautiful. / s where is the missing middle?
ah well each his business, it's great to be able to choose between the city, the suburbs and the remote region!
miserable because your 3 1/2 is costing you the eyes of the head?
simply, because it is the caisse de depots et de placement which has invested mainly in the rem project. if the project had been financed exclusively by the two levels of government, to which we remember the mission of the government is among other things to offer services, and where public transport is a service, to provide a public transport service. with the purpose of making money, it is sure that the service objectives will not be the same if we come to conceive it as an essential service.
system that will only worsen urban sprawl because it will make it easier to live in the suburbs so it will have more suburbanites who will inhabit houses built on farmland.
not just bikes et strong towns?
not at all, i have a 4 1/2, and since it's not double lounges, it allows me to have a locked office (as required for my federal job), and i even have not to crack my ass to walk 3 blocks to the metro to go to work!
me, my life is work, bistro, sleep!
> if the project had been funded exclusively by the two levels of government
... there would be no project.
we've been speaking about the blue line for 40 years.
ok, let's talk about the new subway lines built by the public in the last 40 years. ah yes… um, there isn't.
you bring up a good point: it is true that before the savage capitalists who govern the cdpq decided to build a train there, the vast regions of brossard, montreal (?!) and laval were pure, savage and did not know point the sin of urban sprawl. every year, a big party was organized in longueuil to mark the triumphant arrival of the harvest, sometimes coming from as far away as the moors of fairview pointe-claire.
honestly, you just have to put a little green policy and this focus on the rights of workers who have been, my liver, quite weak for a long time.
> while activists have come out in favor of his plea, others have called for the party to go further and have called for a target of at least 65%. the latter pleaded to nationalize polluting industries, without financially compensating private companies, and criticized that the party is betting above all on eco-taxation, a measure which "does not bother the capitalists".
> "with 65%, that means that we are leaving the capitalist framework, and we have a managed economy […] democratically controlled with a leftist party," argued activist marc bonhomme. “by being radical, we would live in a much more convivial society. "
my condolences to gnd who wanted to make qs look more professional and pragmatic.
they surely have one or two ugly too!
is it referring to qs's woke wing?
bof nothing prevents them from changing their minds once the program has been adopted! they practice direct democracy so anything is possible if enough members speak out!
> we do not boast ...
ok, there i am convinced :-)
majority qs!
how do they want to make their beautiful turn?
controlled economy? no thank you, i was not taken out of russia so that i had to go through this, not like my old folks.
and what are they doing there to make their beautiful ideas flourish? members, do your boots follow your lips?
indeed, islamism is not a good value.
qs has the best program for workers - by far
no! no! you have to make sure you have the je ne sais quoi (cough! wokism! cough!) that puts normal people off voting for them, so that they will never have the responsibility of carrying the weight of power. ...
> focus on workers' rights
it's a precarious balance. you can turn like france and protect workers more. but in their case it ultimately ended up hurting their workers greatly. stagnant wages, rotten work climates, high unemployment. french labor laws are certainly one of the main reasons for the country's decline.
gnd is mainly the gentrification of politics, a neat image but not much behind it.
wait, do you think qs is just like soviet communism?
we found the most frozen pogo in the box!
eh?
are you suggesting that people don't read party platforms before calling them all names?
come on, people don't do that.
the problem is that they sprawl over a lot of business far too far to the left on the political axis which prevents many citizens from taking them seriously. they are too demanding, too "hippie" and in short do not represent the desire of the majority. too many radical proposals depending on what we are used to.
personally, i identify with 0% qs. even though they have the best platform for workers' rights, the sum of their platform turns me off big time.
whereas if they do just a little ecological politics and if they focus on protecting the rights of workers, as i say, if they do just that with economic policies of common sense they are going to have a lot more votes. .
> french labor laws are certainly one of the main reasons for the country's decline.
source needed.
you drank the davos koolaid you
you'd be more drunk if you had a drink every time mbc is associated with the extreme right by the la presse + - première chaîne team.
there is something that i did not understand, i thought he was for the defense of french but he uses the word * woke * everywhere.
probably he doesn't like the translation "awake" which implies that those who are not * woke * are asleep?
society is no longer there ... what the population in general wants is for less things to go through doctors such as refills that could be entrusted to other health professionals or even self-service online for anything reasonable. so many acts could be entrusted elsewhere to alleviate the burden of not enough doctors in quebec. doctors are no longer interested in working full time and in paperwork either and want to reconcile work-family-leisure like the rest of the population, and this is normal, society has changed. there may be other models to do, there is even a possible model where we replace family doctors with super nurses and we only keep surgeons and other specialists as doctors. too many people have had the bad experience of finally having a 'family' doctor after years of waiting for a very blah 15 minutes and the doctor becomes unavailable again, retires, goes private, on sabbatical, on vacation whatever ... the thing that everything has to go through non-existent / unavailable family physicians in quebec is a monumental failure ... people have even started to self-medicate for things that normally require visits to the hospital. it is certain that politicians will change the old bottleneck model of doctors, no matter what, because the general rate of dissatisfaction with health care and its progress is made too much in the population without counting the budget. mammoth that it engulfs.
doctors should be under obligations not to be morbidly obese too
all i want is for the pharmacist to be able to give antibiotics for obvious infections.
replace medfams with super nurses? go see what happens in the usa with precisely this scenario, you will very quickly become disillusioned. the formation of an ips has nothing to do with that of a medfam as much in quality as in quantity.
i'll give you a little something in life:
keep your political opinions to yourself. politics is not really discussed with family / at work
i'm interested in knowing why you think "of course" all bosses don't know what they usually do?
it's really just you
i'm down to the knees of the party and you will always have someone to contradict you politically in life in general.
like, i work in chemical processes, literally nobody votes or likes qs at my job. i am in biomedical engineering in continuous studies, it is either a total disinterest in politics in the program and or the rest is very shared.
> especially since in general it is the party of progressives and intellectuals
i'm the person who likes talkshit the caq the most in this province, if you're too arrogant to admit that there are stupid people in our party, seriously slack off. i like the plq, i'm able to recognize that marwah rizqy is smat ', as well as véronique hivon and éric girard, and this knowing that i have as many hooks with these politicians as i have with some squirrels.
> personally i find the caq really demagogue and reactionary.
all political parties and all politicians are. if you don't think gnd, dorion or massé is opportunistic at times, you have an esti checkup to do.
if you can't keep your cool or put up with it when you talk about politics. stop talking about it at all and take it out of your life altogether.
edit: fuck criss with a troll
why does everyone around you know that you vote qs?
i vote qs (but i do not make it my identity ...) and no i do not share your feeling.
maybe you're just defending your opinions badly?
not a fan of the caq. but it is wrong to think that a political party or ideology holds the absolute truth. i know that's not what you said, but to believe that a party is the progressive and intellectual party denotes as much ignorance as those you use as an example of ignorance.
basically, it's bad taste to talk about politics in a sharp way with family or at work. normal jokes and caricature on current events (must be laughed at anyway on the absurdity or blunders that exists in all positions). just ignore your boss and accept that you and your family have different ideologies and views. you probably have similar values or frustration, but visions of different solutions. focus on sharing territory and avoiding the rest, to then navigate the conversation to a topic other than politics. so stop being the scapegoat / ardent defender. it is possible to exchange thoughts and consider others without betraying your beliefs or forcing a conversion in the other.
in short, you are not alone. this is the reason why it is often advisable not to talk about politics or religion.
so you say the caq people are demagogues but then you're going to say bosses in general don't know what they're doing and the people on reddit would do a better job. then you wonder why it is accepted that people "shit" on qs when you come to plant the caq and say that according to you how much qs is superior. it's really hard to understand why people react to you when you talk about politics ...
i don't like the caq and i won't vote for them, but qs is so colonized by the anglo-saxon vision (identity politics) that it is repugnant.
add: those who downvote, it's true. the identity policy of qs is anglo-saxon in origin and shows a colonization of values. it is in opposition to concepts like positive freedom and secularism. it is the americanization of quebec.
qs is at least as demagogue and reactionary as the caq lol… just not on the same side.
this is because, in fact, many of those who vote qs don't just vote qs. they make it their whole personality. it's really turn off.
so tired of hearing the world talk about qs and basing the caq.
progressive and intellectual party? ahahahahahah
and your boss is still human.
instead of dehumanizing him like that, treat him like a human with dreams and ambitions.
it's really small and arrogant of you.
you seem out of touch with reality and provocative.
if talking about politics attracts the wrath of others, it is probably due to a lack of nuance on your part, especially since you obviously judge others a lot by presenting yourself as a victim.
clearly you did something wrong, but you're not ready to admit it.
oh, to call people reactionaries ...
use absolutes ...
place your group in the spotlight without nuance ...
mmmmh…
worse in the end, no reddit world wouldn't be better off government or corporate.
otherwise they would be there;)
edit: a two year old account with only one post, i got tricked by a troll
> i often think to myself that the people at reddit would do a much better job in government and in the corporate world.
is there no one, no argument that broke you on reddit? do you still have hope for humanity after spending 2 years on the site?
joke aside, religion, politics and gaming platforms are 3 subjects where many people make their identity out of it. these people are incapable of properly arguing that the bloc and the pc are the best choices.
there is hardly any talk of politics at home. we usually say who we will vote for without more. i told my parents that i took a progressive turn recently and that i will go and vote for qs because it is the most progressive party and it corresponds the most to my values, while my father is going to vote for qs. vote caq pcq he is not sovereign and is fed up with the liberals. otherwise, there are family members talking about politics, but it was on the us, so not from us what. in short, i have no personal experiences on this subject.
seriously, those who bite lol
> my boss at work keeps saying bad things about qs all the time i don't understand why it's socially acceptable.
why would it be socially unacceptable to speak badly about a political party?
speak in not then. my younger sister who lives in an overpriced apartment on the set likes to talk to me about qs and their vision .... hahaha it makes me laugh every time. especially when the leader is not even able to say that violence is not acceptable in demonstrations .. esti de coward no column
> a lot of hate
hatred is a violent feeling that makes you want to hurt someone: your life is not almost intense!
> my whole family votes caq and it's hell every family reunion
most political opinion turns into a mess in public, so that's why i'm avoiding the subject. unless i am in the presence of people with a sufficient level of tact, diplomacy and intelligence to develop the subject in a productive or minimally interesting way.
> my boss at work keeps saying bad things about qs all the time i don't understand why it's socially acceptable
it's socially acceptable not to like something. you look fragile.
> especially since in general it is the party of progressives and intellectuals.
okay, there it is, the table is full of orange juice and i have to change.
> obviously like all bosses he has no idea what he does in general
ok, definitely i understand why you are the scapegoat at your family reunions, and something tells me that politics has nothing to do with that ...
> i often tell myself that the people at reddit would do a much better job in government and in the corporate world
that, you don't say that in your christmas parties.
> do you have similar experiences?
i would be inclined to tell you no, because my entourage is either conducive to talking about this subject, or i have learned to negotiate this kind of situation in order to avoid slippages.
when will the chronicles in the jdm on censorship by the sleeping
not agree, at least for the family.
it is done very well when people have less of the capacity to exchange. in my family, opinions vary and we talk about it happily without making a big deal out of it.
câlice just force yourself a bit to check that it hasn't already been posted 8 times today.
you crazy you, i want my internet points!
we are looking for votes among the boomers i believe
boomers will take everything until they die 😉
here we could set up a guaranteed basic income instead of giving allowances to everyone
it smacks of elections. now, the caq and the plq will outbid the promises until the election. afterwards, we will drop that for the sake of finances.
it is not enough to ask the new generation to pay for their health costs which increase each year, we must also give them a little $ 2000 because they vote.
where's the $ 2000 for students? really tired of paying for people who have finished contributing (major advances yes, but at what cost!) ... that we look forward to the joy and that we invest in the future instead of on the comfort of old relics of the past !
you just have to study and work at tom hortons. / s
i imagine this is a top-up pension that can go up to $ 2000 ... right?
it's crazy what you can promise when you know you won't form the next government!
the key word is allant.
to those who have "done everything and who boast of having driven with beers between their thighs, of having been to woodstock during a pi pandemic who bought houses cash pi made 10x on it, these people who took advantage of freedom 50 and whining about young people today .. but not able to save money ?! "
well yes you colice, osti that it is disgusting
no, it's better only for boomers 😉 if it's for everyone, it's not good for boomers: it would reduce their purchasing power because of inflation
> because they vote.
ah, if young people don't vote, they are in a bad position to complain ...
i would say more: can you change the system of loans and grants so that anyone who has not lived with their parents for 2 minutes is judged as an adult in terms of their income?
not normal that you have to either get a baccalaureate or get married to be considered as your own person. criss, spa everyone whose parents can or want to help with studies.
you will one day become an old relic from the past and they have contributed their entire working life.
> where's the $ 2000 for students?
not while those who vote vote for qs ...
in their day, working at tim hortons full time allowed you to support a family and buy a house.
i'm sure tom horton has better coffee than tim horton, and no fly in their tombits
the article says a maximum of $ 2,000 for those 70 and over which starts to drop if you earn over $ 50,000. kind of stuff.
i was charging $ 5 an hour with red cross qualification in 2008. i think $ 8-10 an hour is reasonable!
in the summer of 2020 i paid mine (13 years old) $ 60 for an 8h day. just under $ 8 / hour. this summer, i was paying $ 80 for her, because frankly i found it too little otherwise. it is a lot of work taking care of 1 or 2 children, especially when you are 13-14 years old.
10 years ago i was paying 10 $ / h to have my children looked after by teenagers.
your daughter shouldn't ask for less than that.
i think keeping is always a matter of a deal between the parents and the babysitter. it can be $ 5 or $ 10 an hour or a $ 50 for the evening between 4 and 6 hours.
i don't think there's a standard. and no $ 10, that doesn't seem like too much to me either. it is sure that if she arrives at her current clientele and tells them that from now on she wants $ 10 instead of $ 5, the difference hurts ....
i think it depends on the time of day, the age of your children, how many you have and the scarcity of babysitters in your area! i was paying $ 15 / h for mine .. to take care of 3 children at the time when it is most demanding: dinner, baths, sleep. well, now we have no more life and we like to take out and eat when they are in bed, it is cheaper!
well, finally in her "interview" she said $ 8. it's for one child and she wouldn't have to sleep, so it's pretty justifiable i think.
i think it also depends on your region. we in the countryside we found a 15-year-old babysitter who was babysitting with friends. she was asked how much she was charging and she said $ 5-6 an hour. so we give it $ 6 and we round up when we pay it. we have 2 children (3 and 1).
it could load differently depending on the number of children too! our babysitter had $ 5 for 4 children aged 0 to 7 (ridiculous in my opinion).
$ 10 is really not exaggerated, i was getting paid for that 10 years ago ...
good teaching moment on market information, supply and demand, and negotiation!
encourage her to ask others her age with her qualifications how much they charge per hour, then try her hand at asking her own customers a little more than that to see if the market is ready to support higher demand. , even if it means letting certain customers go if they refuse to pay what it considers to be a fair rate for no valid reason.
why small?
it's reductive… at 13 she's a keeper… and at 16 she's a great keeper?
goods and services are worth what people pay for. i would say look on kijiji, that should give a good idea.
$ 8 if you're super cheap, $ 10 if you're a little less cheap.
$ 10 an hour is what i usually see.
$ 7.50 to $ 10 an hour.
but depending on whether it's just being a presence or full on cooking and bathing etc ...
$ 10 an hour is the big base in my head.
i was paying my 13-year-old babysitter $ 10 an hour and a minimum of 2 hours 4 years ago.
always told myself that moving around takes at least $ 20 of income.
personally, i would do more of a deal like nb of children + overall hours. (and honestly if possible the type of child + the type of parent lol! some are easier to keep than others say lol).
for the salary, for example, i have already babysat like 15 years old, 3 children including two hyperactive and very demanding twins for like $ 2 an hour for a total of 6 hours. it was hell. they said they didn't like me because i refused to tickle their stomachs before they fell asleep ... i never looked afterwards lol !!
if i had a child in the same situation, would i say like $ 2 per child + $ 20 per 5 hours? i don't know if that makes sense, but i would go like this.
my first cousin charges 20 / h per child with his red cross certificate
it should be declared minimum wage.
> it is sure that if she arrives at her current clientele and tells them that from now on she wants $ 10 instead of $ 5, the difference hurts ....
her qualifications have changed, she should definitely ask more of her current clients. they are adults, she is a child. it's not up to her to sacrifice herself for $ 25.
stop spamming that torieu
yes. there is more. this is one of the top posts on the subreddit right now. i invite you to read the top commentary which gives a little more context.
next time try to have to see it instead of throwing a boring repost in our face.
he did not need to be sprayed with mace. these cops need to be trained on how to handle a situation without force. 
but of course one would hate to think there was more motivation behind their use of force.
nobody said the opposite but without the context, it's completely ridiculous to point out this particular case.
well, if its unnecessary, the context only helps to emphasize how terrible it is. so, maybe you're right. 
this white cop is pepper spraying this black man because he couldn't tackle him. they had the stun gun ready in case the stay didn't work. the reading they had the property spray, stun gun, and attempt to tackle this man was because he was.... having a hard time.  
i agree. that should've been fleshed out. it's not just terrible. it's fucking wrong.
no, no, you didn't understand anything. but i give up trying. you don't give a fuck about the background in the background lol. you have a political agenda and it shows.
have a good day anyway! :)
you seem triggered. why don't you wear your cape and take a walk outside to cool down.
[deleted]
what? i do not have an agenda, and you did not try to explain anything.  it is what it is.  and what that is, is not necessary force. period. there's no politics there. 
and thank you, i will.  you too.
quebec really is a place all of its own... with a weird sort of pride.
you clearly came here posting this to stir some shit. don't act surprised if you get some.
i love julie lebreton since watatatow, i admit i had a kick on her.
so julie lebreton all the way
claude legault and guylaine tremblay. it seems to me that we never see them!
richardson zéphir.
it is hilarious and i would like to see it more often on tv. his role in the blue house was perfect.
martin drainville, i was super happy when he added to camera café
worse god than say that, it does not rejuvenate me, i have the impression that it is still new.
otherwise didier lucien. he had a lot of potential but from what i understood he didn't play in a lot of things because he got sick of being "cast type".
bruno blanchet in a film by ricardo trogi
émile proulx-cloutier.
i found him a bit of a settler in boomerang, but in the perfect moments series his playing is excellent. he looks human, and he shows a certain insecurity in difficult situations. which is much more normal for ordinary people than the strong and stoic character who is too often portrayed.
not pierre-luc funk
we see her quite often, but magalie lépine-blondeau.
marilyse bourke.
i'm watching nuit blanche now, and it's really disgusting.
i really like emmanuel schwartz
guillaume lemay-thivierge. we can see him almost since he played pu in huyndai ... ^ (/ s)
virginie ranger-beauregard (blonde from funk). juliette gosselin. simon pigeon
marc beaupré (the guy who plays marc arcand in série noire). i would take it in all my eyes.
while working on the series another story i discovered adam kosh. to be honest, best actor of the series in my opinion, he is really solid.
elvis gratton
my girlfriend is the best actress when we have sex.
didier lucien.
claude crest, a giant that we see only too rarely!
bruno blanchet! but i am aware that he is doing other things now.
gene wilder. i'm bored :-(
rendered there, their loss. your brother is going to find something else easy. it's a loose approach from the bar tho ...
there are both, good employers have a hard time attracting and keeping people too. this is a demographic trend that has been observed for several years.
the difference is that good employers for years have been working hard to be attractive and competitive. it's expensive and it doesn't always work like magic, but they adapt.
bad employers, especially in restaurants where the shortage is exacerbated by the departure of many people to other professions because of confinement ... they have not yet understood the game. they apply the recruiting and team management practices of the last century, and they complain that it could have worked.
we should go there as a gang with no tattoos and our beards unshaven for 3 months, just to shame them ...
we are looking for: a junior employee with the experience of a senior at the salary of an intern
"pu personne would work!"
don't forget that sometimes employers do not hire on purpose just to maximize profits.
r/antiwork
(sub in english, sorry)
it's the fault of the pcre and pcu they said! ah these programs are finished? we must find another culprit, quickly!
it doesn't remind you of a few years ago. i had applied to be a banquet server in a large hotel / convention center (still basic, serve food, minimum wage). i have a dec in tourism and experience in that. immediate response: insufficient studies, request to hold at least a bac.
i don't think they find a lot of high school graduates to do that.
in 2021 you have to be awfully disconnected from reality if you want to run a restaurant kitchen without a tattooed guy
we have the same birth rate as much of the west, with the same if not higher immigration rate but for some mysterious reason according to the neo-liberals have been in short supply of manpower and in the rest of the world. the west the world is just talking about the lack of jobs ...
older generations who hire don't understand that today most gen zs and millennials have more crazy tattoos and appearances. they're going to have to start giving a damn about it, otherwise they'll never hire anyone!
\> he replies that according to the butler: "he does not have the shape and the
look that we associate with the hotel "in reference to its weight and style
(his mustache and his tattoos).
coudonc, are you the hotel of abercrombie and fitch ??
what is cave about the tattoo is that unless you were foolish and have it high on your shoulders on your hand, it can easily be hidden by a long-sleeved shirt in addition to fitting in. level of "class" expected in a hotel.
and uh, i think it's illegal to deny an employee on the basis of weight unless it directly interferes with performance or work-related tasks.
it is still really pocket for the young, it is not easy to find a job with paspire salary, insurance, vacations and bonuses, practically impossible if you have no training or experience, in his case it was. a little slow, that's normal, you have to invest in your young people who want to work and train them in our hands to have competent and hard-working employees.
r/antiwork
we have known for several years that the population is aging, there are fewer young people to fill the positions. the boomers have had a lack of jobs, companies have been created on the left and on the right to create work, companies are growing. now that these employees are leaving for retirement, there are more jobs left than workers. we are moving towards a labor reform where employees will come out on top without the help of unions. the last generations cry out of jealousy because we ask for better wages and conditions which they often could not have seen the mentality 《you have a 40h / week job you keep it because it's worth gold》 despite the salary and conditions offered.
true.
our capitalist pigs, with regard to the workforce, only believe in their gospel of supply and demand when it is to their advantage (as has been the case for a long time). suddenly, this notion that was once so dear to them becomes obsolete when it turns to the advantage of the workers.
afterwards, they talk to us about entity (beautiful projection!) and serve us blind and completely stupid platitudes like "the young people wanna work".
they are hardened sociopaths who do not know how to deal with the erosion of their power over the people they are accustomed to exploiting for their own abject benefit.
sorry for your brother.
tell him to reapply with his second last name, and this time to keep his mask on at all times and wear long sleeves
you have to be careful not to put everything in one basket. some employer complains yes, but it's not because of the retention.
several companies have incredible growth potential, on the other hand, this is hampered by the lack of qualified labor.
for example, the company where i work has a much higher than average retention rate! that is to say about 10% (vs the rest of the industry at about 40%) it is still curbing to grow currently. we have several open positions and receive at most 1-2 cv per week maximum. half of the cvs received do not have the required qualifications for the position. it's not vargous!
it is not true that employers in general have bad practices. that does not mean that certain sectors did not run after it, however.
also, when talking to a recruiting professional, she was flabbergasted to realize that even for senior director and manager positions, interviews are "ghosted". this is unheard of.
it is for these reasons among others that i believe that your point of view should be more nuanced than that. i find it really shit for your brother! it must have been really frustrating to go through this situation. i don't think we should blame all the entrepreneurs and managers in quebec for your brother's isolated case.
i agree with you that this particular industry has not been able to evolve bin bin!
the only 2 topics of conversation in quebec (according to the rest of quebec)
10/10
no matter what your opinion on all of this is, it's excellent. good job.
oh! it's of all beauty!
perfectly brilliant! chariots (electric) and games. ti-jos and ti-cul will be happy.
if private individuals want a sports franchise (your hockey or baseball), good. invest your money, don't ask for public money.
but caq has an election to campaign next october 🤷🏽‍♂️
damn it's useless. i was talking about the 3rd link, but the minister for nordics is too.
those against the third link will still cry lol
do not forget the debate: “the hot doye, at valentine's or at the dairy queen?”
are they wrong?
i agree with you. especially with the money that is spent in professional sport. let the rich buy their own toys.
if you'll let me give you an unrequited french lesson: *monnaie* is not the right translation for money. *monnaie* is either change or another word for currency like in *la monnaie étrangère*. *argent* is the word you are looking for. *l'argent public*. :)
no one is talking about dairy queen in quebec. the real debate is valentine vs belle pro.
but the real answer is the hot doye of the economy grocery snack on st jo
thanks my guy 👍🏽, unrequited french lesson always appreciated here
the poutine is also disgusting. especially the spicy one with the sriracha squirtée sul top.
fuck yeah the economic grocery store with sophie the cashier is for real people
the fishier the snack the better!
near discount lecomte?
hot dogs from chez gérard?
not far away, opposite the post office on the other side of place jacques carrier
the hall is going to be full for a season because everyone is going to go there once or twice out of nostalgia. worse, they will realize that there are not enough people around quebec who can afford to regularly pay $ 200 for a hockey night at the coliseum.
ticket sales will drop and within 5 years the team will be sold to louisiana to become the new orleans cajuns. their mascot will be called gumbo and they will sell prawn jambalaya poutine in concession stands, and give pearl necklaces during the mardi gras game to all the girls who flash the ticket clerk.
in the end, bettman will be happy to have entered a new american market, and the wikipedia page of quebec city will now indicate that their main economic sector is the export of hockey teams. long live the nordiques!
i dare to hope that this is a diversion to avoid losing face in the face of a possible abandonment of the 3rd link project.
*idiocracy intensifies*
it happens all the time. bettman is doing this to boost offers for his expansion teams.
he has no interest in making a team in quebec. neither do we.
greenbay packers are managed in a cooperative. the profits are given to the cooperants, around 360,000 people who vote what is done with it. like repairing the stadium, hiring the ceo, etc.
in short, it is a public company, structured according to the logic of the social economy.
could quebec, which has one of the most impressive records in this type of economy, benefit from this type of acquisition? i think so.
i am against the idea of putting public money into this kind of thing. but there are possibilities that could give a lot back to the community with the huge profits that are generated by sports teams. kind of nationalized team.
those who say that the arena would not be full because the people are too poor ...
do you really think pkp didn't do a market analysis before being interested in this? also, winnipeg has a very good team. and teams survive in the nhl with half-full arenas and boxes at $ 1,000 / game. especially since the television contract for the nordic games would be a gold mine: bell (rds), tva sport, rogers will fight tooth and nail to have broadcasting rights. not to mention the radio rights that would pay for the radio stations in qc.
in 1996 quebec city had around 475k people, in 2021 there are 150k more people. the metropolitan area is over 800k people, which is pretty much the same as winnipeg.
no thanks.
i threw up in my mouth a little.
meh. we're going to be fooled.
why winnipeg and not quebec? montreal could take on 2 teams financially i'm sure so why not a second in quebec?
francois gagnon to confirm that there was no scheduled meeting ....
> the hall will be full for a season because everyone will go there once or twice out of nostalgia. worse, they will realize that there are not enough people around quebec who can afford to regularly pay $ 200 for a hockey night at the coliseum.
it can't be worse than in florida, arizona, or lots of other clubs in the states.
> ticket sales will drop and within 5 years the team will be sold to louisiana to become the new orleans cajuns. their mascot will be called gumbo and they will sell prawn jambalaya poutine in concession stands, and give pearl necklaces during the mardi gras game to all the girls who flash the ticket clerk.
indeed, i do not see how the team could end in any other way. 100% sure it goes like this, no bamboozle. can't wait to try their poutine, it looks delicious!
wow, that almost makes too much sense. plot twist!
> especially since the television contract for the nordic games would be a gold mine: bell (rds), tva sport, rogers will fight tooth and nail to have broadcasting rights. not to mention the radio rights that would pay for the radio stations in qc.
broadcast rights are managed directly by the league and profits are segregated league wide. this is precisely what allows the less popular teams to survive, because the profits from the sale of the rights of the big teams are distributed as much to the small teams as to the big ones. it is therefore much more profitable for the nhl for a new team to be in the usa because their pool of new viewers is 10x bigger than in canada, and therefore 50x bigger than in quebec ...
and not only is quebec's viewing base small, but a good portion of the people who would listen to the nordiques will potentially stop listening to canadians. overall, therefore, the league does not necessarily gain new spectators by putting a new team in quebec, whereas they could potentially go for millions of new fans by putting a team in a big city in the southern united states that has nothing else to do after the football and baseball seasons are over.
but yet ... your flair!
why?
remember the face bettman had when he announced atlanta was moving to winnipeg. the same face as when the canadiens made it to the final. these are the two biggest failures of his career.
so before we find an american team transferred to canada we have to go back to a situation where the team has gone through several owners, no one wants to buy it, the league does not want to buy it while waiting. , that there is no alternative to the us, that the us economy is on the ground while the canadian is still rolling.
it could happen!
because quebeckers have such a loser mentality that they pass themselves off weaker than fucking raleigh.
> why winnipeg and not quebec?
much of quebec's television viewing is already covered by montreal at the moment. being able to fill an arena is great, but it's not enough. to move a club, it has to pay more for the league than the other options, not just enough to not go bankrupt.
unlike a lot of people, i don't think quebec would have much trouble filling the arena. the corporate lodge would be a little harder than the region's employers are the government but it should work anyway. the big problem in my opinion is the television income. right now, the people of the quebec region are "covered" by the canadian television / radio rights contracts. if you add a club in quebec, you reduce the scope of the contract of the canadians in part. the total of the 2 clubs should be above just montreal but would that be a bigger gain than adding a club in houston? i don't think so ... its has grown in quebec since the departure of the nordiques but some bigger baits than quebec, there are still some who do not yet have a club.
last season, 1/3 of viewers were in canada, for less team and fewer people in canada.
broadcasters are looking for sport, it is one of the only live tv vendors with real advertising sales value.
an additional team in canada would undoubtedly be much more profitable for the nhl than a team in the usa. i know that the rights are negotiated at the league level, the broadcasters will still see a capital gain with an additional team in the most profitable hockey market.
> and not only is quebec's viewing base small, but a good number of people who would listen to the nordiques will potentially stop listening to canadians. overall, therefore, the league does not necessarily gain new spectators by putting a new team in quebec, whereas they could potentially go for millions of new fans by putting a team in a big city in the southern united states that has nothing else to do after the football and baseball seasons are over.
we are almost 9 million. it's not small. go looking for new fans? where ? in atlanta? in texas ? the market is saturated in the usa. in your calculation you also forgot the nba. the nba has its season at the same time as the nhl and is the most popular league with the nfl.
with the nordiques you have 82 more games, 82 more games with advertising to sell, 82 games with a market that is growing millions of listeners regularly (which is huge for the nhl). your calculations are valid but incomplete!
finally, qq1 who knows what is talking about. thank you
personally i find that all radical movements such as wokes or alt rights are immensely detrimental to debates.
there is just black or white however the majority i think is rather in the gray.
we can be aware that there are plenty of racist people in our society without claiming that this same society sets up racism as a system. we can sympathize with the fate reserved for racialized people and have the right to speak about a book in which the word negro is written.
we can be for gender equality without pushing to the extreme so that this proportion is always represented on our boards of directors.
we can be for a better distribution of wealth without being a communism.
anyway, i don't really know where i'm going with it, but i find that there is too much excess.
in france, "muh woke" fashion is coming to an end, courage more than a few months and quebec will also have moved on.
and this other thing is the fantasy of the enrollment of children by leftist teachers.
because the jdm editorial writers have to sell paper after all. all this intellectual emptiness is sadly predictable.
the problem, when you go to an extreme, is that you push so hard that you got to the other side.
there are people who push so hard that they become racist by dint of… fighting racism!
there is currently an anti-racist movement that advocates segregation as a solution against racism. made there, it's ridiculous!
> basically, the authors regret that entire sections of the academic world are now in the hands of militant ideologues.
cry me a river.
whether we are alt-right or woke these are symptoms of a system that no longer provides.
these people involved in so-called radical movements are freed from growing inequalities and given their socio-economic situation.
also notice that the alt rights find hypocrisy everywhere. their woke counterpart sees racism and inequality everywhere. me there i understand the world to be angry at their condition.
> journal of montreal
> joseph fécal.
i have other things to do with my day than read nonsense. like watching the grass grow for example.
all this debate of systemic racism, wokism and the like 🤦‍♂️.
1- historical works should always be judged in a historical context. personally, i'm not a trigger warning fan, as a consumer of culture you should be able to use your judgment to quit if you don't like it. when it's done that you have to put a message before the episodes of little life ...
2- i think that in quebec we are doing relatively well on equality in general. is it perfect? no. can we improve? yes. should we make it an absolute priority to the point where our democracy is stagnant? nope.
the west faces much bigger problems. for example: the distribution of wealth. it is the most powerful cleavage tool that exists in today's society.
3- i have the impression that we are heading towards the society of ignorance. the more it goes, the more the very fact of simply asking a question will come to pose a discomfort. ask where you come from, if you are practicing or not, etc etc. personally i ask this kind of question because otherwise i would have remained in the most complete ignorance. i come from the bottom of lac-st-jean .. if you are muslim and i ask questions it is not a personal attack, i just want to learn. now, i understand that this is not the first question that should come, nor the second;). that said, it is also necessary to know how to recognize the 2nd and + who were born in quebec and not to treat them as extraterrestrials.
4- education in qc is a joke that we keep pulling down. it would fucking help us to learn how to learn, to know that we can all be wrong and that there are no bad questions. learn to disagree without arguing, take the debates as an opportunity to refine or change our point of view, etc. in this sense, if you went to the university and you get disorganized pcq you see something that does not suit your business, our system does not work. educated people should know how to put things in order and correct errors (in judgment, interpretation, understanding).
tk .. i ramble a lot, love <3 and have a good saturday pm.
order. very curious to read this book.
if only people could debate for real without immediately closing in on their little universe, we might move forward.
"some even question that there can be objective truth."
it's not new and it's not unique to "wokes". it was fashionable in the 5th century, it was fashionable in the 20th century, it is fashionable now. worse, it is a good deal because there are no objective truths, it is an invention!
ah, the radicals of the identity left!
yes, there is racism and sexism and other forms of discrimination. yes it is serious. yes something must be done. whether or not you call it "systemic" doesn't change anything; the cumulative discrimination of many people hurts certain groups.
most…
talking about other issues does not mean condoning discrimination.
making brilliant gestures and being the most outraged in the world doesn't change a thing, once the headlines move on.
to demand control of information and opinions is totalitarianism.
aggressively attacking other progressives hurts the whole progressive movement.
if the wokes really wanted to cause turmoil, they would have to pretend to be right-wing, join those parties, and then keep exactly the same attitude, but on right-wing issues. go put the shit in the other camp please.
go team woke!
i am sick and tired of hearing about wokism, that stuff that doesn't exist and that is just an imaginary spearhead of the right.
ah! how i can't wait to hear the nice sound of shirts getting torn !!!
exaggerate a little if you consider that recognizing systemic racism is "woke"
that's the problem with the legault and the quebecor columnists of this world. if you don't think like them, you're a woke.
these people do not want a debate.
building racism into a system is exactly what systemic racism does not mean. your point on polarization and extremes is interesting and relevant, but that's not a very good example. looking forward to getting me downvoted by the mecca of this thread's unique thought.
> we can be aware that there are plenty of racist people in our society without claiming that this same society sets up racism as a system.
nobody says that, you misunderstand the argument and you attack a straw man. the idea is not that racism is set up as a system, but rather that the system, however well intentioned, produces different results depending on an individual's ethnicity / origin due to unconscious biases, prejudices or angles deaths in the application of laws, standards, unwritten rules, etc. it's a ** huge ** difference.
> we can sympathize with the fate reserved for racialized people and have the right to speak about a book in which the word negro is written.
absolutely, but we can also make an effort to use it as little as possible, even in an academic context. the cegep teacher last week, she purposely acted as an asshole. it goes both ways.
> we can be for gender equality without pushing to the extreme so that this proportion is always represented on our boards of directors
if for you parity in decision-making bodies is "woke" or "extreme", i think you are just a right-wing bro-dude. it's not bad the thing that is the least controversial in the world with the fact that the quality of tim hortons is reduced.
anyway, i'm not sure where i'm going with this but i find that you are exaggerating a lot and that some of your ideas were poorly formed.
from "the teachers are enlightened and are victims of the marxist-social youth" to "the teachers are communists and brainswash the young people". nice gymnastics.
unless the primary school teachers are communists (but not the colleges) and succeed in converting the young people just in time for when they arrive later in their career and from that moment they take power. a learned system erected by the powerful trotskyist forces in order to recruit everyone against the defenseless capitalists.
and another who does gaslighting.
[nothing's happening, you're just crazy.] ( study /)
> it is the fantasy of the enrollment of children by leftist teachers.
ah damn. too bad it's just a fantasy ...
> reduced opening hours, closed businesses, lost contracts, the effects of the labor shortage are increasingly being felt, but the worst is yet to come. quebec is preparing to experience a “historic low” of workers available in 2030, indicates the minister of labor, who warns that it will be necessary to work older.
curious. they do not say "salaries at the zenith" ...
in any case, it's good to see the backlash against the employers of shit who have pissed us off so much for a long time.
honestly there are too many businesses and with the present environmental situation perhaps the decrease should be seriously considered.
infinite growth, what could go wrong?
retirement is likely to end up officially being delayed, even with their tax solutions. it tells me that i should probably take a year off at some point.
with a name like that, it's easy to understand that you're sinking into it. who will benefit from these reforms? to the ultra rich, not very complicated. let us therefore begin to demand that the system of redistribution of wealth be overhauled and tax the ultra-rich properly and without possible leakage. we will have the money to continue to support public services. (and by ultra rich, i am not talking about those who make 250,000, 1 million etc. compared to the ultra rich, they too are in the buffer middle class)
"quebec is preparing to experience a" historic low "of workers available in 2030, indicates the minister of labor, who warns that it will be necessary to work older."
haha good joke. i am already planning to take my mid-retirement at 55 and complete at 60. worse, i warn that baby boomers cannot maintain their lifestyle because of this.
there is no shortage of manpower, there is a shortage of living wages
and the bosses are already starting to use it to justify massive immigration
it's time to shop around for your wages in bulk :)
this is the bullshit. there are people who are well capable of doing good jobs, but who lack a bac, etc. so they are excluded, or they are hired only temporarily without rights or future for less money. what about tim hortons etc, who can where want to work for minimum wage? in the usa they are called the working poor. politicians who talk about labor shortage are really talking about cheap labor shortages. they are ignorant or the liars. the response always? no more immigrants!
they've already made their money ... at the end of the day it's going to be the workers and the consumers who are going to pay the price for this shortage. increase in the retirement age, decrease in the quality of services, and an increase in the prices of goods secondary to the lack of productivity.
it may be good for your ego but it will do no good for your wallet.
yes it takes a balance of power between workers and employers, but when the shift is too big on one side or the other, society suffers either by inhuman working conditions or by rampant inflation and disruption of labor. services.
if the world just did what they wanted all the time, society would stop functioning. the snow plows would remove more snow, the teachers would teach just when it tempted them and the doctors would operate on you "at some point"
what keeps the machine going (good and bad) is that the majority of people have to contribute to the community by producing useful work. it involves doing business that you sometimes don't like, having scheduling conflicts, traveling to work and even having you talk through the headset by your boss or your more experienced colleagues.
thinking that a lack of manpower will improve the conditions of workers in the medium term is like a farmer who is happy to have lost a harvest because he will not need to make the effort to collect his crops. vegetables. it gives a break but after that there is nothing to eat.
beyond the high salaries that will be paid from our taxes by the largest employer in the country (the government) we will also be stuck with inexperienced and often incompetent labor in addition to being capricious. it's funny when it's the cashier at a&w but less so when it's the guy who prepares your chemotherapy cocktail.
amen. degrowth is not a decision to be made, it is inevitable. humanity is starting to run out of oil to keep running more and more industries for more and more people, eventually we will take the descent, whether we choose it or not.
but yeah, as long as you undergo the decrease, you might as well choose it before the blow happens
it's anecdotal, but i was shopping for floor coverings recently, and câlisse that there are in the floor store. i just don't understand how there can be so many stores competing to sell the same business.
yeah, can you just have amazon, mcdonald's, and wal-mart fuck.
i predict 70 years and 4 years later it will be 75 years.
but but but there are going to have to sell their condo in florida: '(
self-centered! :)
building those $ 40 + an hour, and we're missing some too. yes certain trades and occupations its too low salary level, but the salary is only one side of the problem.
i believe that we could have the urgency of killing ourselves at work, with climate change, political inaction, and life in general, the focus of our lives could not have the same priority as it had in the pass.
ask
^^^ at ^^^ less ^^^ the ^^^ hospitalizations ^^^ are ^^^ not ^^^ if ^^^ worse
sorry folks, i jinxed our old numbers :(
it's not going that well after all ...
oh hell no
the numbers are rising! it's boring!
here is my contribution to the daily figures released today!
^^^ au ^^^ less ...
hospitalizations and deaths have not increased for months despite the fluctuation in cases. i think it's going very well.
moreover, the fact that the provincial and federal governments are removing more and more restrictions rather than adding them and this, while they are advised by the best experts in the country, proves that it is okay. much better than many people think.
61 deaths per day from cancer in quebec, 2 to 5 from covid at the moment.
let's postpone more cancer surgery.
huh what, it goes up with the arrival of winter? surprising! i predict it will go down again in january - february, or maybe we need a curfew to get it back down?
it's funny ... the vaccination rate is not falling.
was told by r / quebec that the only reason that quebec has not had as in europe is the vaccine rate.
can't wait to see people blame the 2 doses in 2 months.
when was the last time you looked at the situation in europe? google covid france or covid germany or covid austria.
these same experts and governors told us not to wear a mask in march 2020.
it is precisely to not postpone cancer surgeries that we keep the numbers low. problem with the covid is that it is perfectly capable of taking a month to kill you ...
comparing covid with "cancer" in terms of death is always a bad argument in itself.
the reason is, cancer is a group of diseases. there are cancers for just about everything: cancer of the brain, uterus, intestines, stomach, prostate, bone, blood, bladder, lungs, etc. you can have different cancer in all parts of the body. and again, several of what i just named can have several variants: for example, you are going to have "standard" lung cancer, "smoker" lung cancer, "asbestos" lung cancer, and so on.
and it's the same with the flu, for that matter: it's a group of diseases (normal flu, swine flu, bird flu, etc.). meanwhile, covid-19 is a single disease caused by 1 virus and its variants.
having to compare (or feel the need to) one disease against a group of diseases speaks volumes about the severity of one vs. the other. it's like saying "grizzly bears kill more than reptiles" (yeah, but what reptiles? crocodiles, snakes, lizards, the ~~ god ~~ zilla from 1998?): either it doesn't meaning in itself, either the grizzly bear is really a terrible predator.
\ * i am not saying cancer is not serious, far from it and i wish it on no one, it is really awful diseases. i'm just explaining why we shouldn't do this comparison.
\ * \ * i have no figures or sources for bear vs reptile killings, they were just live examples to express the point.
i predict a culprit in civil society decried by dubé or designated by la presse / jdm within a few weeks.
\ * turn the wheel \ *
\ -1 young people
\ -2 bars
\ -3 those who go to karaoke
\ -4 those who plan to go to a sugar shack or to the chalet, sacred irresponsible freaks toe.
\ -5 those who take care of their health by going to the gym
\ -6 an innocent random dressing table that will still serve as a punching bag for dubé.
who is feeling lucky????
given the irresponsibility of a large part of the population during the holiday season last year, i think we can expect a peak in early january as people pay less and less attention.
i'd be for a curfew for the unvaccinated right now
don't worry, look, we already have people in the comments saying that things are going up like last year, because of the 'irresponsible holiday makers'
the wheel spins. we're really surrounded by anxious fools.
are you in europe?
so the situation in europe is just known to reddit and quebec / canada public health doesn't know it? let's see!
because there wasn't!
i agree that the way was super awkward, but seeing the shortage of toilet paper, it would just make the situation worse x1000
it might also be necessary to ban the cutting of tails and ears in dogs (less common but still not prohibited)!
> devocalization
aja. i was unaware of the existence of such a procedure until a few minutes ago.
you have to be fucked enough in the mind and mentally to inflict such a punishment on a living being. calvary is despicable.
so much the better ! i know that many clinics refuse to do this, but a ban is even better.
when i was 8-9 years old, my cat died in a swimming pool because he couldn't get out of it because he was declawed. the pool owner (my neighbor) said he was glad the cat wasn't declawed, otherwise he would have torn his cover. i had nightmares for weeks after he tamed my cat's corpse, completely frozen, with bloody eyes and nose, on my porch.
i do not even understand that it is still a debate, we do not localize the good creatures in my opinion.
we should do the same for the ears and tails of dogs.
meanwhile, tail docking is still performed in pigs, which let's say are just as much, if not smarter than our companion dogs. but because we have decided on its place in our diet (just as we have decided on the place of cats and dogs in our lives) we give ourselves the right to offer a different treatment depending on the species. man still has a lot of learning to do about recognizing his place on earth.
i am an animal health technician and i planned to bring out the champagne when one day it will be prohibited🥰 i work in a clinic that has not done so since 2018-2019 and it is such a relief! damn i hated it where i worked before :(
there would always be good time ...
if you can't live with a scratching cat or a barking dog, well maybe you shouldn't have a pet.
i'm late but the article does not link to the petition so here it is: 
i know that signing petitions may seem useless but it's the only way it will end up being heard in the national assembly now. it takes around 30k signatures ideally.
we should do the same for pork tongues and chicken garlic / s
[deleted]
can we also include the cutting of the bird wings?
\*\*\*
can we also include clipping bird wings?
[removed]
i believe there is also another factor to consider: cats with claws which decimate bird populations ...
i am 100% against declawing cats, but i have my reservations about banning the practice. here's why...
you all know as well as i do that * champions * are commonplace in society ... you just have to look at the number of impaired driving arrests to convince yourself, people don't get it.
imagine the scene: kitty arrives in his new family. dad takes him to the vet to have him declawed and he is refused. he tells the story to his beer chummy who says "take it to my brother-in-law, you'll see he's going to declaw it for you, your cat screeching". you imagine the horror scene that follows ...
in the vet it's the same barbaric result, but at least the environment is controlled and it's done under anesthesia instead of being done * fret * in robert's garage with a pair of cutter pliers. .
this is my point. no to declawing, but as long as there are going to be some who are going to do it "themselves", i think the vets should continue trying to raise awareness and educate and promote alternatives.
my fear is that cat declawing will continue even though the practice is prohibited, if you know what i mean ...
i find it a pity. i have had cats in my youth and in adulthood that have been declawed, all at the same time as spaying. they all behaved normally afterwards. a more intermediate position where some veterinarians would refuse the operation and others would probably allow it to reduce the number of declawed cats without completely eliminating this choice. not sure that all the cats will keep the same owner when the latter decides to buy leather furniture.
[deleted]
[deleted]
i think it's cursed little people when your plan for the day is that.
while macron is making speeches on the influence of france and french in the world, we have a pm who is looking for a meeting with a businessman for a team of puck pushers, and all the media are like: ouuhhhh sweeet newss to spinnnnnn
as much as i would like to see the return of the nordics ... let the private sector organize itself and try to have a state that takes care of the real problems of society ...
wasn't it legault who said that we have no time to waste talking about the aboriginal holiday because productivity is important?
productivity for caquistes, right? a nordic minister?
asking a minister to deliver a result over which he has no control seems to me to be a bad strategy. people will laugh at them after failure.
when i saw the titles yesterday, i thought at first it was a joke. wtf?
he hears the elections eh ....
ti-coq legault and his gang of not-so-good millionaire accountants who are trying to boost his image as a 'common man' even more.
bread and games.
the caq literally lost my support
we are in a health emergency
there are people (usually from other countries) who have the stereotypes that the lives of quebecers and canadians consist only of hockey and maple syrup.
it hurts when your prime minister seems to be like that.
but they're too busy for electoral reform though.
this is what happens when you do your shoulder lacing by zoom
i say the same, but the caq does not have many projects for témiscamingue seems to me.
sigh ... big sigh.
of * bridge * and games
geriborium. we have more doctors by capital than france but we manage the system so much. al that we pay them twice as much for half the service!
regulate health first! hockey is a private business!
you're not alone, i thought it had a different twist than the nhl hockey team.
the report?
and to reform chslds ...
i say the same but it may be related to the fact that the rest of the province is stuck with the existence of temiscamingue and generally do not know where on the map
imagine when gary bettman learned that he could go see a game at the videotron center directly from montmagny without making the detour over the bridges, it must have made a big difference on the potential return of the nordiques.
which variant is his nissan?
are new suv functions
the first personalized plate that i think is good. too bad that this person does not know that it comes from a laboratory ..
not sure, but the oil change is every six months
> it comes from a laboratory ..
celui de wuhan?
mediaset goods.
yep. i will have put fauci # 1 or gainoffunction # 1
to criticize a government committee because the object of its existence has no relation to the administration of the province: boring, relevant, asks to ask questions about the function of the governor.
criticize a government committee because every member are careful: the intern can write the article, ??????, "no, we are soooooooo unlike americans, this why we keep importing as much american concept as we can!"
we still cry racism for nothing. it is normal that they are all white. look at the ice cream: it's all white. / s
yeh worse?
i understand the argument, but the recommendations of the committee should not be confused with the committee itself.
you don't have to be italian to do a spaghat.
everything is white. hockey is a racist sport. the only lil black bottle tlm run after with a stick to hit him sick / s
it's in the name: not ti-noir.
the italian has one thing that knows his stuff a little more. he is not going to give me cheap sauce or parmegian kraft which could be bad.
> the italian there is one thing that knows his stuff a little more. he is not going to give me cheap sauce or parmegian kraft which could be bad.
on the [kraft ca] ( there is elio leoni sceti, an… italian.
yeah, well, that's what there are italians everywhere.
excuse me but that changes what the fact that the product is true that it is not parmigiano.
it looks more like a mixture with pecorino or romano.
this is news that i love to read !! food sovereignty ftw
180,000 kilos of strawberries per winter? not bad!
heeey this is really cool! a positive article on quebec in english too!
and then there are those who continue to say that the future of the regions is via dangerous industrial projects .... we can do lots of other farms like that with other types of fruits / vegetables.
worse it is just one example among many others.
vertical agriculture is the way of the future and i am happy to see it in quebec.
my written french is pretty bad but this is a subject i’m really interested in. early in the pandemic we were concerned about fresh produce where i live and i picked up hydroponics. 
you’d be surprised how easy it is to do (and how well it can work in a city / indoors). nothing beats fresh herbs, fruits and vegetables. some plants also look really good as a houseplant too (ex: turmeric) and do well with temperatures indoors.
hydroponic lettuce is one of the easiest and lowest maintenance crop to grow. if you think this is cool, there are a lot of small scale hydroponic setups as well that you can do at home (indoor / outdoors and with / without grow lights). 
don’t want all the setup / maintenance? micro greens and sprouts are incredibly easy to grow and ready within a few days to a couple weeks (and are nutrient dense). they also don’t require much space.
really good news. i hope they will not be overpriced compared to imported ones
it will do good, organic strawberries are scarce at times
i hope they will make them organic. berries are among the fruits that contain the most pesticides.
it consumes incredible amounts of energy this kind of setup. unless there is a source of revolutionary technology, agricultural production that uses only artificial light, that's stupid.
it may seem like a good idea on the surface, but a greenhouse supplemented with grow lights uses infinitely less energy.
producing 180 tonnes a year using so much money and resources is downright stupid.
good. something is lacking, someone is struggling to offer something and innovate in the process. long live the entrepreneurial spirit and capitalism!
half are for me
i am severely in debt
help
it's really not that much when you consider what the production time is. that's not even 1% of normal strawberry production, which for the most part lasts only a month. (that tends to change now with the climate and the appearance of "autumn strawberries")
strawberries in january
you can also do this indoors on a smaller scale. i have a pretty large home setup but [here’s an example]( that can be scaled up / down depending on how much room you have (this takes up ~4m^2 total in my home office for reference).
edit: if you want to try something small here are three ideas:
* microgreens / sprouts - they mature quick and are hard to get wrong (plus microgreens tend to be super expensive vs growing yourself).
* lettuce greens - they need less light and are much harder to mess up compared to the larger stuff i have pictured but they require more space.
* herbs - most are pretty resilient and it makes a world of difference to have fresh stuff available. it’s very cost effective vs. buying in store. they are a bit harder to keep happy vs. lettuce but normally pretty easy.
warning: do not grow mint in a shared space with other plants unless you only want mint. learned the hard way.
they are going to be more expensive, worse in special less often. are you going to buy some anyway?
imported ones don't taste anything do they? it's cheaper but it's not worth the monetary or environmental cost.
sorry for the english reply - one of the major advantages of hydroponic growing, especially indoors, is the much lower need (sometimes / many times none) for pesticides and fungicides. i grow strawberries like this on a much smaller scale and only provide macro/micronutrients. the plants tend to flourish in these kinds of setups.
yes, winter strawberries are pesticide free and only use natural bio-protection. :)
... it is funded by investissement québec ...
matter of marde, honestly. it is a private good a hockey club.
i would rather have schools and hospitals that don't fall into disrepair
how much would you be willing to pay in taxes or additional duties for (x). if x is not ramdam's return, the answer is always 0 and one bar
nothing.
pay the nurses, the teachers. let's renovate the schools, let's fix the health system. let's add eyes and teeth to the ramq, invest in mental health services, add electric charging stations, nationalize our forests, our water and our basement before… i look at my notes… pay a hockey team a private company.
negative 25%
nothing calisse! canadians already suck. it's been a couple of decades since the nordics left leave them in peace.
zero.
on the other hand, i am open to negotiating if you drop the 3rd link.
i don't care about the rich men who skate after a puck. here is. sorry to shock those who love hockey.
∅
$ 0. i put in $ 1000 anytime, without hesitation, even $ 2000 without even flinching if it's to improve our health care system.
zero
it depends on whether we are talking about buying shares in a team or just paying taxes that will end up allowing a rich person to afford a club.
nada niet nothing pentoute thank you good evening.
fuck hockey, fuck the nordiques ... i want an education and health system that meets our taxes.
i want my compatriots to be able to have appointments in the near future when they have a medical problem .. i want parents and grandparents to be treated well with more than a bath every 2-3 weeks .. i want that nurses and women specifically be treated well and not forced to work compulsory overtime ...
fuck hockey, fuck sport, the government has nothing to do with it .. disconnected misogynist boomer who only seeks to be re-elected with his hockey esti pi his third link box has fucking 10 billion !!!
good .. sorry, i'm a bit hottie and i needed to evacuate! thank you .. i love you very much! moouuaa!
minus fifteen thousand pia $$ es.
per month.
come on!
as a poor bitch who pays almost no taxes, i find the scales to be pretty steep.
anyway, probably zero or one bar.
well it's too late ....
"we" took care of it for us ....
i would not have added the bar with my zero.
0
buy lev.to $
this is normal, a little over 2 weeks ago legault announced $ 5 billion to electrify half of the urban buses in quebec by 2030. $ 3.6 billion from quebec, the rest from the federal government and corporations transport. so this is only the continuation of the first announcement.
400 million that we can spend in more important areas ... lol
getting the kids to school is clearly not important.
dude, it's not like we're going to send buses that still work to the scrapyard just to pay for new buses. this money would have been spent on replacing buses anyway, it's just that there at least we make sure that these are the buses that will not pollute as much.
as an asthma sufferer i can tell you that there is not much worse for the respiratory system than driving behind an old yellow diesel bus that spits its smoke in your face (because for some reason that i do not know, we decided that school buses were the only large diesel vehicles not to put their exhaust pipes up ...)
no that's for sure, what would be better would be to have a big village hockey team again.
s/
it depends, i don't understand the school bus in montreal, there is a school in every neighborhood ...
for $ 400 million? let's say that the field of health and the roads are harder than the buses ...
except who always have problems with electric buses, especially during the winter ...
seeing how people drive, do you really want your kid to walk to the neighborhood school when they see the nasty weirdo gang trying to get to work?
me no.
> the savings are estimated to be considerable. in fact, the life cycle operating costs of azes could be 35 percent lower than those of diesel-powered buses.
source?
and to see him become obese, to want too much to protect them .... nah seriously i lived in a capital when i was even pi i went to school on foot it was 20 years ago people were already debile .... pi ba i am not dead
to take the bus = to become obese
walk to school = get hit by a car
ba let it go
i just wanted to take a moment to point out how perfect the montage of dubé's head in this image is.
hot deans and games
well then. begins to think that legault is a populist.
he has to return the favor to pkp for all the services rendered
as long as bettman is in office that won't happen. i'll pass you a piece of paper
electoral blah of legault for votes in qc. he will brandish the specter of the nordics in return when the 3rd link project is going to fall apart (he will say that it is because of the fine step of the federal government)
sniff? sniff? it smells of votes to be tettered in quebec !!!
let me call a friend who's knowledgeable about nhl team building.
it smacks of the end of the 3rd link and / or a too great rise of duhaime if the caq plays the card of the return of the nordics to get the votes of the right of the suburbs of quebec.
quebec's first white elephant must be hidden before creating a second
this guy is on a power trip
for guy born in mtl he *really* loves quebec city.
if religion is the opium of the people, hockey is the religion of quebecers.
wait, is there a state of emergency en qc ou à qc?
ahahahahah good meme: d
i also want to do business
when a politician feels that the quote is decreasing in quebec, he pulls out the nordic card. labeaume did the same it at least allowed us to have a space for concerts but still no nordic ...
ok, just for a laugh despite the improbability of the thing, if legault brings back the nordiques, your reaction?
it goes well, just when it's a meme ..
do not put a cent in there ... we have already had enough to endure the canadian.
have you ever heard of spaghetti?
[deleted]
ethiopian cuisine and real sichuan cuisine. beyond that, i would also say that balkan cuisine is one of my favorites. lots of influences from turkey and middle east, germany, eastern europe, it really is a culinary gem.
🐓 portuguese chicken🐓
gastronomy: all that there is a lot of spices!
the different gastronomies of the countries located around the mediterranean sea (lebanon, italy, greece, south of france, turkey, spain, morocco, syria, etc.). it's varied of course, considering the number of countries that are part of this "region", but often these cuisines have in common that they are fresh, diversified (vegetables, meat, fish) and as delicious as they are good for health.
i am absolutely sold to pierogis. preferably as a breakfast in the morning.
tacos. i can eat 12 in a row. there's always room for that.
* paella *. i could eat it until i got sick, especially the seafood version.
* full english breakfast *. very similar to quebecois breakfasts, but the addition of roasted mushrooms and blood sausage makes it wonderful.
* japanese curry *.
i love french food and indian food, especially butter chicken. i find indian food to be very tasty.
caramel cookies.
indian, thai, mexican. real no scrap like mexicali rosa and thai express la
korean cuisine. i've been making myself tofus or fried chickens with such a good spicy sweet sauce since i've been experimenting with recipes.
italian poutine.
japanese and mexican!
i think the only reason i don't like beef bourguignon is because every time my parents did it it was really bad ...
korean food! everything that revolves around gojuchang and gojugaru is top tier. easy to make at home but i would tell you that on most korean restaurants tested in montreal it is still a good value comparatively and very little westernized apart from the dose of chili which is suitable.
otherwise alsatian cuisine! unfortunately not found here in restaurants and i have not yet tried to do it but it requires a good dose of specialized charcuterie not found here or disgusting (i tested well sausages that claim frankfort or knacks and it's really not that…)
stan's ribghetti
personally, i like asian foods a lot like wonton soup, sushi, and spring rolls.
and i really like french gastronomy.
chicken tikka masala and chorizo burrito
i like indian and thai dishes in general, very spicy! 👌🏻
it's the four-day week that i want ...
great. a month's vacation should be the norm. we clearly don't have enough in north america, when we compare ourselves.
worse 35 hours, it is more reasonable for work-family balance, mental health and etc.
i work 35 hours and have almost 6 weeks of vacation per year. it's so different from other jobs i've had in the past. the hour i earn per day allows me to cook and eat better. and go train more.
i often get contacted by other companies to offer me jobs and i always tell them that i will not be interested in changing if they do not meet these conditions. even if they offer more pay side.
the quality of life is much more important to me than the salary.
i am in favor of the qs proposal above. everyone should be able to enjoy life.
once everyone has this quality, we can think of working just 4 days.
during that time at the caq, no extra day off, it would hurt productivity.
i live in finland at the moment, and people usually accumulate 2 days of vacation per month. summer is a 4-5 week vacation that people take! i was in shock at the start.
some will qualify qs as the extreme left, i think that's like the bare minimum. we are dunces compared to europe in terms of work-life balance.
i do 33-34h a week and have never been so productive. at 40-50h i often grabbed my ass because i was always tired.
wow it's so cool that a political party talks about it! honestly, this is a very important issue for me and it wins my vote ...
in the usa, they don't even have a week's vacation under federal law ... why are we trying to take inspiration from that? we can do more like europe.
reading the comments of those lucky enough to have a less intensive schedule, it really does a lot of good for your mental health.
i'm not normally in the qs electorate but wooow good job!
let's walk towards degrowth.
if only that was a promise they could keep ...
in europe, they have it, the 4 week vacation per ~~ month ~~ year. i have always found it to be a "luxury" that our continent should also offer to the wage bill. it may only be a resource in the eyes of employers, like stock, equipment or real estate, but it is a resource that has a family to take care of, that has a role. in society other than "cog for business" and who did not ask to be born just to work, pay bills and consume.
edith: woops, a shell
i do 32h in 4 days, 4 weeks, 5 illnesses, 5 weeks without pay. summer schedule to be with my kids from june 24 to september 3. i wouldn't change that for any money.
it's not just work and money in life.
a week between christmas and new year's day.
one week during the spring break of the great fall and winter.
one week while the daycare is closed in the summer
kin, your vacation month is over.
you haven't had time to go to cancun or finish your 5,000-piece puzzle crunch. just vacation to clean your house because you had no time during the year.
in my case, i work 24-30h / week. honestly, just enough so that i have some money left to save because otherwise we live a life of slaves ...
they're going to get me to vote for them if they keep coming up with good ideas like that.
better yet: 32 hour week (4x8). no sense in having to work 5 days a week. this tradition comes from the time of the industrial revolution.
i do 40h weeks, i take 5 weeks off per year and i have one friday off per month on top of that… and i really don't feel like i'm abusing the holidays.
that we can give an employee only 2 weeks .. in the context where the 2 members of the couple work, with children, wtf?
["take your combined years to the lowest itas units"] ( .jpg)
crime ... i am a student and it is my current conditions of employment that he calls for. that’s saying something ...
we have to believe that there are too many people who are being exploited and who have been conditioned to accept conditions of exploitation.
in europe and the uk it is 4-5 weeks, plus the 12 days or so on public holidays. in canada, it is barbaric. also it is less well paid than the united states. give me humane working conditions, and the pr and i will vote for quebexit.
i already have that at my job, i don't know how the world manages to survive with 2 weeks of vacation, i would come crazy.
so let's take a look at tabarnak ...
the minister of finance, in addition ...
let’s see, tabarnak.
when is the next provincial election? 2022? criss that i can't wait.
looks like .......
"ok ... if we cancel the 3rd link, the quebec region will vote pcq in the next elections. it takes us something to do the switcheroo like in indiana jones, but without the rock scouring us ... ..... i have an idea!"
my tax money well spent.
/s
i didn't know the beaverton wrote articles in french.
what the actual fuck ????
this is the kind of policy you do when all the problems are resolved, things are going well in society and there is a budget surplus for which we can afford somewhat frivolous expenses.
we can see that this caquista government lives on a cloud. i'm ready to shovel those clouds to bring him back to dry land quickly!
coalition avenir boomer
esti that it is cellar. legault is two speeches away from promising us orange crush in the water fountains.
seriously, someone tell me what are the good moves of the caq / legault?
obviously we are in an emergency situation and it shows.
[i wasn't that crazy with my team project that turns into a ministry] (
concretely, we could send eric girard, françois legault himself, justin trudeau or the pope to meet gary bettman, i do not see what they hope to accomplish.
when the nhl opened the bids a few years ago to add 2 franchises to the nhl, they only received two full bids - las vegas, and quebec. however, despite the fact that quebec was assured of making the top 2 by default, * quebec was nevertheless refused *. basically, the nhl wanted a team in seattle, but had a problem when seattle was unable to file a case on time. in fact, when the nhl reopened bids for an expansion team, they limited bids to cities with names that started with "s" and ended with "eattle".
the nhl does not want a team in quebec - or even, it could tolerate if a franchise were to find it impossible to continue operating in its current market, and again, if the nhl has to choose between quebec and houston for a transfer, rest assured that the dallas stars will have a new rival before the canadian. expansion is also out of the question - the nhl has gone out of its way to achieve geographic balance (16 teams in the east, 16 in the west, and 8 teams per division), so to keep this nice balance, the nhl should go to * 36 * teams at least.
anyway, i don't see what françois legault has to offer gary bettman. quebec has its nhl-caliber arena, other than paying bribes directly to league officials, i don't really see what is missing ...
in my opinion, françois legault knows his hockey, and he is aware that the nhl has no interest in quebec. so, it costs nothing in an election year to put on a show to promote the return of the nordics, knowing full well that nothing will happen, except perhaps to seek a capital of sympathy in the constituencies that can be won. gary bettman will pass for the villain in quebec, but to date, that has not seemed to prevent him from sleeping ...
also, do we have time to do this in a health emergency? 😉
after patapouf charest, i didn't think we would end up with another clown as prime minister. can we find a name for the clown legault?
...
clearly the priority for quebec / s
imagine if trump had done that, the quebec media would have called him stupid. legault does so, is it correct?
what the fuck hahahahaha
there are fees to pay for the license and permits but the bulk of the money goes to the bond. to protect consumers and workers must have an amount that serves as security
has she seen this page? it's not always clear, but it can help:  license.html
also: the bond, she must obtain it from a bond, she must not pay $ 40,000 (specialized contractor) or $ 20,000 (general contractor) from what i understand. someone can correct me. but as another review indicates, you have to pay to apply for a license. the rbq has a cost simulator on its site!
as soon as you do work for others, the rbq considers you a contractor within the meaning of its law and its regulations, so yes you need a license in its case. for plumbing, heating and electricity, it is one of the corporations (cmeq or cmmtq as the case may be) which takes care of issuing the licenses it seems to me, moreover. for other work, it is the rbq.
boff the. the $ 20,000 bond with its cost like $ 800 intact ...
the most expensive cost for us is insurance. around $ 30,000 per year.
guillaume lemay-thivierge.
christian bégin, this dude a few years ago at tlmep was jealous of a comedian who played in a film because it is the role of the actors to be actors because they are the ones who received the training of actor, worse comedians should use humor not be an actor.
there, 2-3 weeks ago he spent at tlmep to launch his comedy show.
in addition, he has such a tiring voice, the 2nd most tiring voice in quebec showbiz after bernard fortin.
- roy dupuis. i'm just basing it on all of life, but he's got no emotion. still the same neutral face.
- sarah-jeanne labrosse. i think her beauty camouflages her rather ordinary game. if she were less beautiful, she would not have the same career.
mathieu baron, the big story loft ham * who is making a big deal out in district 31. criss i hate him.
[him, criss] (
lucie laurier ?!
guylaine tremblay.
marie pierre morin. bye
roy dupuis
anne cassabone. she's good at what she does, but she just does pretty much the same thing. it's anne dorval with a different face.
michel côté.
we use it a bit like it's our tom hanks, but i find it never looks natural no matter what he's playing in, and it pisses me off.
claude legault, plays the same dude in everything he does.
for me, it's pierre-françois legendre. not that i hate him viscerally, far from it, but purely on the overrated aspect, i do not see the extent of his playing. i had "discovered" him at the conservatory and for 20 years, i have the impression that we often play in the same register. i did not listen to the family comedies on radio quebec in which he was recently involved and i hope he was allowed to explore something other than his roles as ricardo trogi.
and louis josé houde, when he tries to play a role other than that of louis josé houde. disgusting on stage, but as an actor, it's not guy nadon let's say.
pierre luc funk ...
for my part, it is catherine-anne toupin. i don't know, i don't appreciate her acting so much.
roy dupuis and dan.bigras
rémi girard who always plays the same role of the slightly bony guy who ends up talking loudly to a gang of people to tell them "the real things"
it's shocking not to see xavier dolan…
luc picard
timothée chalamet, i don't remember the last time i saw him express an emotion in a film.
eve landry. it almost spoils can you hear me.
i understand that all actresses are older in real life than their characters, but eve ... bastard. looks like she's trying to play a lil 8 year old guy, not a 22-24 year old woman. it almost looks like she modeled her games on robin and stella.
i suggest that you do not encourage this hotel until the union members have signed a satisfactory agreement.
it is seriously embarrassing as a situation and she is absolutely wrong. if it were the opposite, we would be climbing the curtains.
men have as much right to their modesty as women! my very feminist side says that gender equality goes both ways.
it's 100% staged that stuff there, with production meetings and all that.
the title is a little misleading, but it's true that you reverse the sexes and it's controversial without too many problems
double standard but the guy is still a simp to have done it anyway.
just annoying this show. what are the ratings?
it's with od showers, it seems to me that they always take off their sweater in od and this is dramatic?
i am for gender equality! lets go julie in your turn
how deceptive? he said no she kept pushing him
between 250,000 to 310,000 depending on the evening.
but that doesn't count the numbers on the web.
it's a matter of consent.
my daughter danced for a long time. in her shows, she didn't wear much. but in everyday life, it's pants and hoodies.
it's a bit the same thing.
pkp left the chat.
lili boisvert has entered the chat.
the first person to initiate this is the lady in black, after the other guests board. yes julie participates, but is not the source.
anyway, ayoye
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
as a facilitator, she could have put her foot down and said that it didn't look good. she was the one who "ran the show" after all ...
yes, i agree 100%, she has her share of the responsibility. this show doesn't usually fly very high.
where are the ski-doos?
ok?
in french?
i live in anjou and i have never seen this!
are you sure what you see?
what are we looking at?
wow you have beautiful views in anjou, direct its course from neighbors pi how much do you pay for large lots like that?
yes 100% it's my home.
you're looking at a post that's wasting your time. a little comic who is probably jealous of "the men" of the other redditors of quebec.
uh it's quite common to have a view of the neighbor lol
jsp lol
i cross in
yeah lol
op, i sent you a real tourtière recipe by dm. i think my granny wouldn't have wanted me to market it, but she would have liked more people to eat the real deal.
* disclaimer *: i am from saguenay.
edith: ask and you will receive a recipe by dm. i just don't want her to be in the public sphere.
it'll take you a time machine because pies are scarce these days
i don't have my recipe close but this one is no worse
that google translation is perfect
isn't it to put on the blue jays' caps by saying that it's a typical canadian dish always?
fuck it makes me want a good tourtière from lac saint-jean. if only it didn't take like a full day
eweille don michel dumas' recipe on youtube is good in chrisse. it's bad preparation but aye hit well in esti for the holidays
i would give you my mom’s recipe but i’d have to steal her brain 🤷‍♂️
uh dude ... google would not have made the agreement of the past participle .. why are you lying?
there are several good tourtière recipes, but ideally you should choose those that come from grandmothers in charlevoix or saguenay or lac saint-jean.
you just started a war in the comment. the tourtière are different if you are from saguenay or the rest of quebec.
where i live its a double-crusted meat pie (normally pork and beef). 
in saguenay, its still a double-crusted meat pie but way deeper with pork, beef, chicken, potatoes and other secrets.
costco....
yes, yes i know downvote. : b
take this recipe:
you will not be disappointed.
i seem to have seen a recipe two to three years ago published here. the daughter sent us to a website where her mother's recipe was very well explained with pictures.
lol!
here is a recipe that i have made at least 4 times. still as good.
the most important in a tourtière, in my opinion, are the spices. the easiest way is to buy el ma mia brand pie mix.
have you tried googling "tourtière recipe"?
it's cultural appropriation ....
see that you share with a torontonian and not with your québécois plebs?!?! i want your recipe too hahaha
frankly, a real tourtière recipe, i would take it well too.
worse, i could finally show my matante monique what a real meat pie is. 😆😆😆
yeah, it's pretty boring, this time change.
fuck winter time!
to do astrophoto, it's pretty good if it gets dark early: it gives more time to exhibit, and what's more, it's orion season, and it's full of things to do. cool to take a picture in that part of the sky :)
it decides me.
i like this.
i like the mix of early night and cold weather. it's not that yet but there's nothing like walking at night when it's -15 worse than there are plenty of stars.
i love the night more than the day, but the dark day makes me feel a bit worse
i have a one month old baby. fak in addition to not sleeping at night, it is all the time at night. it's been a month since i have the impression to live the day of the marmothe haha
i'm not tripping, but that's the price to pay.
everywhere on the globe, on an annual average, there is as much darkness as there is light:
- near the equator, the days are almost all the same all year round: for example, the sun rises around 7 a.m., sets around 7 p.m.
- at the poles, 6 consecutive months of darkness, 6 months of light.
here, we have long summer evenings in the light, because we have long winter evenings in the dark.
i do deliveries for purolator, delivering in the dark is very ordinary. no light on the house and address not visible. already looking forward to winter over!
make it pretty clear here
i love the more relaxed evening / night mood.
it doesn't affect my morale at all.
* ... your ... valve ..? *
it is bright in the morning, however. big win for me
it's painful.
i like it only when there is also snow. right now it's pretty dull.
what did you do with your day friend?
to take a picture of montreal, it's sick, you may have to wait 10 p.m., you can do it after the job
i just know his belt
us here the sunset is at 4:19 pm (4:19 pm) in montreal but it gets dark earlier especially when there are clouds.
good evening, i cooked a duck and baked sliced potatoes in the oven with the duck fat, i am waiting deliciously.
it wasn't any funnier the first time you posted it.
there's enough material to joke about the plq, you don't need to attack anyone's physique.
that's nasty dude
the klingons are the good ones in tng, so on the contrary i trust him 100% (more than the ferengi gang of the caq).
wow, a good quality joke
edith: the people who chatted to me probably didn't argue that my comment was sarcastic: /.
i am wholeheartedly with the educators. every day, i entrust my youngest to his educator in a daycare center. with confidence.
these people deserve so much more.
so our cpe educators are not interested in the government or well it is that we do not have the money but for the nordics, that on the other hand we will give them a minister you.
it seems that our government has the priorities in the right place
all the parents i know with children in cpe are pro-strike.
the special law is being written right now.
good
worse it speaks of the nordiques lmao.
get those morons out for me next time.
criss that they pay them what they deserve to have !!! it's ridiculous to see their priority being in the wrong place ...!
[deleted]
coliss
this is the 4th strike. this time, i find it less funny. we learn on saturday that we don't have daycare from monday to thursday. not everyone lays babysitters or 4 days of vacation out of nowhere.
babysitters are starting to get expensive.
finally duplessi was right about the unions.
ti-kévin, i might not be able to get someone competent and dedicated to take care of you while i'm at work, but we're going to watch a hockey game of our favorite team together in 4 months in the stands.
here the educators are crying to be on strike. they have bad conditions and i agree with them, but they find that the strike is not the solution, it puts the burden on the parents not the government, the strike misses "its goal" according to her. but they have no choice because it is not voted by cpe.
it is still appalling. the incompetence of the treasury board.
the teachers went on strike
nurses would like to, but don't
engineers went on strike, arrested him and will start again soon
the educators will go on strike
professionals will go on strike
the incompetent treasury board is simply trying to buy time until the caq elections to cross collective agreements.
next spring, there will be a lot of turmoil in quebec and i hope the caq will lose face, because it has not been theirs for 3 years, ie signing collective agreements.
it shouldn't even exist ...
when the employees arrive at work with the kids, the employers will have to deal with it, and everyone knows that the employers have the government more attentive than the educators ...
dude, where are you from? you're on all threads tonight with your very special opinions. calm down the go-left, you're going to overdose.
duplessis framed hand in hand with the clergy who put pressure on our grandmothers to be submissive housewives, among other things. it was a proto-nationalist wanna-be fossil that did not argue that the liberation of peoples is in the same vein as the liberation of marginalized groups.
but if parents (read: taxpayers and voters) complain, the authorities are hot.
good day my friends!
good day men! you deserve to be vulnerable, emotional, and loving. also go see the doctor there is no shame in just making sure everything is fine. we do it for you xx
we can take advantage of this to be the best versions of ourselves. it is together that we will put an end to toxic masculinity.
talk about your feelings when things are wrong. respect others. don't think that women owe you anything.
good day gentlemen :)
i make a small observation of all the days of man:
a) we talk a lot more about mental health than on women's day, or other days devoted to minorities of all kinds. make it your own conclusions.
b) there are always disgusting pseudo-feminists who will make the joke 'no it's world toilet day', or to say out loud their sub-speech, 'dae men is shit?'. the joke was not funny in 2015, it is not funny in 2021.
yessir happy birthday of the bizounes
good day to you gentlemen!
halo and bf2042 tonight with a nice poutine to celebrate!
good day!
remember, a guy can cry, it can talk about his emotions, it doesn't need to bencher 350. the period is difficult for everyone, so take the day to listen to yourself and pay yourself the deal! : d
the media don't seem to talk too much about it. surely a coincidence
good day boys. continue your beautiful work. and let no one tell you that you have no right to complain because you are privileged.
according to wikipedia: "in quebec, some men's organizations talk more about quebec day for men's health and well-being"
more interesting as a name than human day (already it should be men rather than man in the singular).
with that, fuck toxic masculinity and we can do better!
i didn't know his existed… yay?
for my sons, thank you.
edit: can you also be strong, determined, convinced and leaders?
i had a little bit of depression lately and saw something terrible. the majority of my friends have told me something like:
`` hey anyway if you want to talk or if you get too depressed, call me! ''
i was then able to observe these same people avoiding contact with me for quite a while, confirming to me that the majority of guys want to avoid talking about emotions at all costs. (i am however not the type to be heavy or to seek pity in my entourage, i want to mention it)
my friends, on the contrary, supported me in many ways. either by texting me more frequently, by showing up at my house unexpectedly just to have a chat, etc. some of my friends even guessed that it was not going very well and offered to support it.
this is the reality of men. we are collectively very bad at talking about our emotions and it brings real consequences for society (mental health, relationship problems, violence etc.).
a man who experiences problems will usually experience them alone, in our current society.
that has to change.
good day boys! :)
i thought it was our day of the year.
oh well.
we get as much about it as we do on women's day. stop pissing off and be good humans all year round, not fakes, it's not complicated ...
[deleted]
good week.
get approached by hello only in montreal
you. you are my kink.
it is often a secret banking site question, do not answer
the quebecois spinning top.
la toune de barbie's resto bar grill
*sodomy and reading michel foucault*
intelligence, personality and abstinence
but seriously, suffocate me.
dressing up as a duck with a potato in my mouth.
wake up gently, after a good night's sleep, with a kiss from my partner
a good hot shower
good coffee
a productive working day
nice colleagues, but not intrusive
a return home without traffic
enjoy a beautiful sunset outdoors
eat a good supper
relax at home in the evening while discovering a new game / a new series / a new movie
getting to bed early and sleeping well
rince and repeat
missionary.
the silence
la plame sonore de rocky iv.
i love what the post has become haha
why do you have to know
hot laundry coming out of the dryer
i like it when my girlfriend wears a daddy legault mask and uses her strap-on. it makes me feel like an average quebecer. 😌
fold a garden hose so that it does not run any more, then unfold it slowly while feeling the pulsation of water trying to escape from it.
(you were the one who requested a "[kink] ( ...
the alabama hot pocket.
receive the big 3rd link from the department of the nordiques.
getting fucked by the roc and the bosses while boomers humiliate me by telling me that they already had a wife and a house at my age.
film my feet!
swarms.
ca pi mon pere is rich in tobacco, classics
we have such a rich culture
a little yeah
unbelievable
smit the face
copacabana is the place!
close
with the party in kéveune it must be the 4 most classic grannies from here.
a little yeah
for those who don't know the classic:
the music is incredible, it makes me move in tabarnack there.
> close
no, clarks
where is he the little bum?
i have the doua is at the top of my charts
cursed gallows game!
except once at the chalet
the black turkey will come back!
enweye, say the big one you miss a propeller, big one.
the number of times i have listened to this video ... i never get tired of seeing it.
basically, who's the one who put soap in my eyes again?
sen coliss de you man chased ya had to die man
it's one of the best videos on the internet, definitely a classic! the number of calls these guys drop is nonstop
i wrote to the ministry of education to include this video in the new course of "culture and citizenship of quebec"
we are going to have it in our country!
* '' this is a band of healers! '' *
"my sweater."
thank you for making me discover the funniest video on the internet.
said the big one!
him yé la .... pi yé mort
its easily rivals the explosive mixture.
the more you listen to it, the more you discover funny subtleties.
a real gem.
i was introduced to this nugget from the qcoise memesphere this week.
i'm amazed at the amount of genius content that is layered on top of it.
"well no, i think of him that he died there!"
a classic aha
"again"
"everyone man"
phrase that i say once a day for 10 years thanks to this video
"count yourself lucky that your chassé boyfriend is still alive, shitty pedal sti!"
or to include it in the french quebec comprehension exam for newcomers?
hahaha! i hope who will not miss a gro 'propeller
i cut off their arm and bring it to the vaccination center to make it easier.
good idea!
this is a real lpt!
boff
i like the american approach to a diplomatic boycott - not sending a delegation of dignitaries but letting the athletes participate.
i understand the importance of the message but i am against instrumentalizing the athletes and their work for political ends. it would nullify all the efforts they have made to train and qualify over the past 4 years, and in some cases it will make the rest of their athletic career futile if they retire before the next games.
like the rest of the world ...
have you seen the news? a professional tennis player went missing after she publicly accused a senior chinese official of sexual touching.
china is a monster, a monster that will never hesitate to attack anyone in order to obtain the country's resources.
sources : 
let the athletes compete under a generic olympic banner. but yes, a diplomatic boycott would be required.
canada must withdraw its colors completely, let the athletes go under an anonymous effigy.
where is peng shuai by the way?
without fully answering the question, i would go further by saying that we should simply stop doing olympic games.
it is too much money and resources placed in huge infrastructure, which in my opinion should be invested elsewhere.
millions see billions? for olympic stadiums of concrete and steel, for an event that lasts only 2 or 3 weeks, could be used to improve urgent problems of humanity (environment, public transport, food etc.)
i would like to point out that i am not against olympic sports but rather against everything that revolves around ...
i think that, as a society but also as a species, the time has come for questions.
questions about our priorities and the direction to choose for our future.
no, but we should still issue a warning to the athletes that it is possible that china may take them hostage for political ends.
yes
what guarantees any canadian in china that he will not be detained without cause?
where he has a recent concrete example
no excuse, no justification
going to china is like smoking a cigarette, everything is fine until the day you get cancer or die.
seems to me that is a good reason. a no brainer.
oui. don’t trust china, china is asshoe
the comments of people who never even push a mower in their life melts me fall down my chair listening to you a lot too much on popular tv .. so here is another athlete to invite to say, no in any case i am not going to go in china nor any other athlete in my circle "no name will be disclosed" .. why? because the hypocrite are liars but above all because they are savages "the government and the forces of order", the tenis player who disappeared is not even the tip of the iceberg, for having been in several recovery labas for my sport .. a beautiful place populated with very warm people unfortunately crushed oppressed by their leaders .. people are afraid to speak in the street .. is that an athlete who is to train all his life in a single discipline should give up at this stupidly publicized event to convey a message? absoutely ! a young athlete has in his career on average 4 chances to make the olympics +/- they will recover in 4 years .. the stakes are much greater than a single man .. if the said athlete wants to go to the low because it is his last chance .. fine .. but under no circumstances should our politicians' cauldrons interfere in this cause .. and whatever it is ... their super chinese pride would take a hit! and that's exactly what they need !! ☮❤🙌
it is not the olympics that we must boycott. these are the sponsors.
yes. because the olympics help destroy the environment. it is savage capitalism.
quite often, wouldn't he have a chinese tennis player believed to be missing after accusing a ccp politician of sexual assault?
the temptation is strong, isn't it?
yes because we don't care about the olympics
subtly showing off the pale blue and white colors of the flag of east turkestan.
china is going to get stuck in it like its first political prisoner who immolates himself. in addition to attracting the wrath of the sleeping dragon.
well, that would be fair for appearances😅
in my opinion, yes, it would be absolutely a good idea for canada to abstain from the olympics.
[canada withdrew from the 1980 moscow olympics] ( due to the invasion of afghanistan by the soviet union. today we are faced with a similar situation. the chinese dictatorship is currently the author of genocide against the uyghurs, [according to the un definition] ( in addition, china is violating the [basic law of the hong kong special administrative region] ( by suppressing freedom expression and regional autonomy in hong kong territory. we must also not forget the illegal occupation of tibet, nor the repression of the sovereignty of taiwan. the situation worsened further for canadians since china effectively kidnapped two canadian citizens, the [two michael] ( -michael-liberes / bon-retour-chez-vous.php), as diplomatic hostages.
there is also the issue of the safety of canadian and canadian athletes and tourists. china is a country where citizens are routinely arrested and kidnapped for arbitrary reasons, and where secret police surveillance is rampant.
in my opinion, it is a bad idea for democratic countries to participate in the next games.
why? because it's the right thing to do.
why not? because it would be fun to beat china 25-0 at the hokey.
nothing could be nicer than waiting for the opinion of the quebec immunization committee instead of starting to vaccinate today.
why couldn't they have done their analysis in parallel to get it ready on time?
big good news!
> “after a full independent scientific review, the ministry has determined that the benefits of this vaccine for children 5 to 11 years of age outweigh the risks. "
i would like to have the figures ... i'll have to dig a little i guess.
> the province has approximately 650,000 children aged 5 to 11.
it will help us reduce cases and transmissions in the community.
[  
it will allow us to manage that part of the outbreak rate. that is, 1 in 2 cases is linked to transmission from 5 to 11 year olds.
* my reaction when opening the thread *: ok, i think i'm ready to read the comments! go!
* my reaction while reading the thread *: nah, i was not ready.
[good advice] ( in case you want to go see the hidden comments at the bottom of the page (and [a preview of what to expect if you you say "ah, it won't be that bad!"] (
is it already possible to make an appointment for the children? it does not work yet on health click ... (sorry for my french ..)
hihi, a beautiful clientele on a silver platter that ...
[deleted]
it's no for my grandchildren, no reason for them. they are safe and we get vaccinated to protect ourselves. 3rd dose in early december for me.
yes, i just have my children vaccinated to be able to remove the measures, i don't care about the rest!
with thunderous applause.
[removed]
curious to see if the forced vaccination of children will cause more concern than that of adults.
it has to be bureaucratic to the max. if it's too fast and efficient there are a bunch of people who won't be able to justify their pay.
almost 1 in 2 cases at the moment is linked to primary schools.
last year before the vaccine, the case curves in primary and secondary were the same. this year, since they are mostly vaccinated in secondary school, the curve in secondary has never left the status of flat line while that of primary is breaking records among the rest of the population. the vaccine seems to be really effective in younger children who have stronger immune systems, so by vaccinating elementary-age children it should cut outbreaks and contamination a lot.
make sure you don't read the news on facebook, the world is going crazy over there.
it's still very soft.
surely there will be vaccination campaigns directly at school.
no need to break the bécyk.
can you ban this dude there or have to wait a year and a half like / u / jelsaispas?
you need a little reddit break and it shows.
i laughed loudly.
it's the far west! i don't understand that kids can apparently find a gun with both fingers in their noses, but that for almost a year the svpm has not been able to contain the problem at all, which is actually making it worse. there is something wrong with that… and this is the kind of problem we'd better get rid of on the pc.
what is the punishment / consequence of getting caught with a pistol right now? a slap on the fingers? jail?
ns
montrealers get what they deserve, you vote for gogauches violence increases, that's how it is.
i don't know if you've seen the episode of je "la route des weapons" (available on their website for free), but it fits with your hockey pockets full. hundreds of guns a day passing through the reserves. as long as the federal government does not have the balls to go to the reserves, the guns will continue to come in without problems.
note that even in the episode of je they say it, the first nations are not the problem and i do not blame the first nations, there is a small group of criminals who use the special status of the reserves to pass their stock.
the only rational explanation is that spvm agents are in the arms trade.
someone said two years in prison for an illegal weapon.
_____
it is known that the world on the right is anti-gun
[deleted]
interesting, thank you! it's clear that there is always a small group of people to enjoy, that's the way of the world.
but what i'm wondering is how that there are no massive arrests of arms sellers in north montreal, if there is a massive sale of arms. an investigation has revealed that any 10-year-old kid can easily find a gun. this is worrying, and it requires a strong and prompt response. (since like 1 year). you don't often hear about raids and major arrests i think, and it just makes it worse.
we find a gun on you = prison
it takes consequences because the guns will not return to the united states.
these weapons are completely illegal and we refuse to take the necessary means to enforce the laws and meanwhile the politicians are doing political mileage to want to ban legal hunting weapons which are hardly ever used in crimes.
your worse than the covidiots.
you get downvoted for a reasonable assumption. people don't seem to understand how organized crime works.
it's still sad, a bad trip ...
or was i just thinking, maybe they let this go to change the de-fund movement into a re-fund movement? 🧐 in any case, that's the effect it has!
neo-liberal.
the spvm was slapped on the fingers by the bobos media recently because too many illegal weapons were seized from blacks, so it's systemic racism.
it sounds like a parody, not even.
i think it's a bit like drug seizures. the big ones who have the big quantities are very quiet and have a huge network of dealers who have maybe ten at a time to sell. sellers of illegal weapons are arrested "often", but the seizures are not very large and therefore the prison sentence is not very great either.
try r/quebeccity
wow, i wish i could accompany you. we're the same age, have common interests, and work in the same field. i'm sure we'd have cool discussions. unfortunately, i'm not in québec city or anywhere near it (i'm in the ottawa-gatineau region). i hope you find someone to enjoy food/a good coffee with. cheers!
i’d like to
don't forget to try poutine!
get a coffee / meal at [le café du monde. ] (
as a canadian i always find this comment amusing. we literally have no cuisine other than poutine. today i found out we also have elk and deer meat. makes sense i guess lol
thanks for the reco!
>we literally have no cuisine other than poutine.
not true. we have :
* chinese dough
* tourtière
* unemployed pudding
* sugar pie
* maple taffy
* baked beans
* crisscross ear
* cipaille
* smoked meat
* farlouche tart
* sugar and cream
* sister fart
* grandfathers in syrup
* pig's feet stew
* a meatball stew
* date squares
* apple crisp
* beaver tail
* bannock
* apple pie
* pumpkin pie
and that's just a small list ^((that i'm too lazy to translate)) of quebec's specialties. if i did the same for the whole country, i would have a much bigger list...
whale blubber. yum!
just so you know it's not a small café... it's a restaurant in the old port... and it can be a bit pricy...
where can i try these dishes in qc?
> sugar pie
this always kills me. sugar pie ffs. lol.
if you don't mind the prices: [aux anciens canadiens] (
if you don’t mind waiting outside for a table:
[buffet de l'antiquaire] (
>this always kills me. sugar pie ffs.
they aren't what they sounds like. they are really tasty.
thanks this is great!
hi, deputy director here.
i imagine it's a new account? the incredible amount of fraud is making banks more and more cautious. when they are in doubt, she freezes everything, to make sure she can fill the gap if the check bounces.
on the other hand, you are legally entitled to a $ 100 by check, whatever. unless he makes you sign a document saying that he takes away this privilege. i'm not sure exactly what tangerine has for internal practice.
just my branch is losing tens of thousands of dollars every week in check fraud. no more robbing a bank, just sit on your sofa, and the police don't have the capacity to investigate.
i hope that clarifies you a little!
me it had happened to me but it was an error, lot of problem to be solved. when i cashed a check in us, the cashier had made a manual freeze, but she did not know that there was an automatic freeze, she had frozen twice the amount. took some whining but took about 2 days. i wish you good luck.
i do not know about this bank, but me it freezes the new deposit for what exceeds 500 $. if you deposit a check for $ 1200, $ 500 is available and the rest is released after 2 weeks. never the full account, that's weird, unless your balance was close to zero.
easy. let go of the past. it's been 18 years that all my money has been online in "e-banks" and in crypto. i never had anybody to tell me what to do with my money.
i can make a loan in 2mins, i can transfer any amount to my regular (empty) foreign bank accounts in minutes. people decide my money.
i have had this account for at least 10 years ...
the check is a large amount but ... i already had a good amount in my account.
let him freeze my check for a long time ... i don't care a little but the rest of the account is money that comes from my paychecks ... i did not defraud a company in convincing them to send me a bogus salary.
thank you for your comment.
> i imagine it's a new account?
ah, the face of the cashiers who ask me "how long has this account been open" when i answer them "it's been 20 years" ... let's say that the problems do not happen to me often and they are resolved very quickly. ..
at the time, i thought it was a mistake but the guy on the phone assures me that it is a common practice when an investigation is necessary ...
honest people pay for fraudsters, it's unfortunate.
it's one of the downsides of tangerine too. if you had been in a branch, it would have been settled very quickly, but now you have to talk on the phone.
i am with td, i receive checks for the right amount twice a year (share purchase plan at my job)
i have a limit of $ 5000 for a check deposited over the counter. i told myself that i was going to go to the counter question that is not to freeze. the clerk tells me "it's going to be frozen for a week", obviously i'm arguing with her, even more since the check comes from td, she doesn't want to know anything.
6 months later you can be sure i'm going to the ticket office.
in my mid-twenties i had quit the bnc pcq they didn't want to let me loose on my paychecks or i had been working for 2 years.
so there is security, but also the human factor of tit criss who have power trips as much as me.
oh, definitely. to have had a branch, i would have dropped it off in person.
containment is an acceptable short-term shock measure when the virus is new, you don't know what to expect from it and you have no way to fight it (vaccines and treatments), but at this point in the pandemic it is outright madness.
any politician who in november 2021 even just dares to suggest the possibility of returning to lockdown must be denounced / ridiculed as strongly as possible and ideally removed from power.
they have 16,000 cases today with a population barely larger than quebec and their hospitals are overflowing. even if at the level of cases it is also vaccinated, it is mainly unvaccinated in hospitals.
it is clearly a measure of last resort, but confining everyone because hospitals are filled with mostly unvaccinated people is sure to generate a lot of frustration. the vaccine works, the risk of infection remains present but if it is mainly minor symptoms we will not spend years confining everything. boosters are probably going to be needed to keep protection high, especially for those with reduced immune systems by age or other illness, but it should be enough to not need containment.
they have had the health passport since may there, yet 35% of the population is unvaccinated and they are breaking case records.
the key seems to be the vaccination rate, but i have a clear impression that the health passport is not the long-awaited quick fix.
it takes what it takes
germany is also currently experiencing its worst wave since the start of the pandemic ...
even no comment calling them nazi because hitler came from there? i am almost disappointed.
it's called putting on your panties for the common good. example to follow.
i can't wait to see what the pro-vaccine say. if you think austria is going to be the only one to do it..it's coming to america too
anything. containment is absolutely a valid option in the event of extreme slippage.
if we had the same number of cases as in austria, our health system would collapse. certainly containment shouldn't be the last option, but to say it's something that should never be used is rubbish.
if we get to a point where the integrity of the health system is at stake, containment becomes almost the only option.
> that there is no way to fight it (vaccines and treatments), but at this point in the pandemic it is downright madness.
this would be true if everyone accepted the vaccine, but this is not the case and apparently even less in austria than in quebec. we won't need to get there, especially since we are going to start vaccinating children.
austria has 138k active cases. this is the highest number of active cases they have had to date. i don't really like confinement but if it's for 2-3 weeks while everyone is vaccinated, it's not that bad. it is much less worse than the confinement we suffered here.
they have 15,000 new cases a day. this is 5 times more than what we reached at the peak of january 2021 with 3,127 cases per day.
too bad the article does not explain why the first proposal to confine only the unvaccinated was rejected.
they also test about 24 times more than in canada right now. (almost 10x more per capita since the start of the pandemic)
i don't know exactly for austria but in germany something like 80% of restaurateurs do not ask for proof of vaccination even if it is required by law.
source: [heute show sur zdf.](
> that is, 80 percent of the cases that restaurateurs have only inadequately checked or not checked at all.
you can not really tighten the screw well well then there are a lot of people that its not affected so they keep on crying out.
> case memories.
no, the solution is less testing of the vaccinated (like here)
if we told you to run down the bridge to save the world from covid, you would.
people like you scare me.
it is possible to be for the vaccine and against this measure. the world is not black and white as you claim.
with the same number of cases as in austria at the moment, the health system has crashed 100% here.
is your point that you prefer a complete crash of the health system to a lockdown? because that's the options given to this point
because you make money for every dollar you put in. next question?
i don't like the title. it's not just ubisoft that receives state subsidies. it's the entire multimedia industry.
the title should be: why is the state still subsidizing the video game industry?
before the caq was elected, during the election campaign, it was talking about withdrawing subsidies from ubisoft. i remember discussing it with their candidate in my corner. since then, ubisoft has opened satellite offices in several regions. we never heard of this idea again.
my little theory is that the risk (at least in terms of the perception of voters in quebec) of losing a few thousand jobs in the metropolis, we didn't give a damn at that time. the city is big, in the end it will balance out, the short-term future of a neighborhood and a sector is not too serious.
but risk an industry like this in saguenay, sherbrooke or to a lesser extent in quebec city, which makes it possible to develop an industry in regions which sometimes have difficulty diversifying and which has the power to retain or attract young people. ? it is suicide for the government.
and that, i always had the impression that ubisoft knew it. and these regions will always be a little more dependent on a single employer than montreal, where by its sheer size, the industry has exploded in recent years.
faque it gives ubisoft leverage to keep the status quo.
just a theory of the same.
especially with all the horrible stories we know.
let's face it, the industry in quebec is not bad just because we are considered cheap labor.
> it is all the same a sacred moral dilemma, however, to subsidize a foreign company so that it settles in a city like sherbrooke in search of employees of other companies who are fighting to make their place.
the only employees in common with other companies are the programmers <20% of the staff, eg project managers if you push the note a little ...
> now, i think we should bet more on another interest of foreigners to come here, and that is our workforce. we could improve college and university programs to ensure that people come here not in a race for tax credits, but because the staff we find here are better than elsewhere.
the problem is not that our graduates are less good or that we do not know our reputation elsewhere; are not enough programmers!
the majority of graduates in art or design if they graduate in a downward trend in a project to find an internship or a job and it is not pcq you graduate that you are good enough to be employed in the industry at large.
> with a non-refundable credit, the business would not have access to government support if it did not pay tax.
it is eg the best idea pcq killing the credit it will increase the expenses of all the companies and the juniors who are going to leave school for 2-3 and the placement rate is going to be 10% ...
i am the first to despise all the bs corporations in this world, particularly bombardier, but in the case of ubisoft, i would be curious to see the real figures between what we invest and the return on investment in taxes.
even if it's kif-kif, it's still creating jobs. is it really worse than amazon which pays not a damn cent in canada and almost nothing in the usa and whose jobs are precarious jobs close to the minimum wage?
> my colleague francis halin, of the journal de montréal, wrote on tuesday that investissement québec had injected $ 113 million into ubisoft from 1997 to 2015. of this amount, there are nearly $ 83 million in interest-free loans and a little more $ 30 million in grants. the funded projects amount to approximately $ 500 million.
seems like a good investment. 30 million in 18 years to generate projects totaling 500 million.
now i have the answer of how they can come out with such mediocre games and not file for bankruptcy.
why are we subsidizing bombardier?
“first, why create jobs when there is a shortage of workers? quebec does not need additional jobs, there are 200,000 vacant positions. ”
well yes, we must stop creating jobs pisquon tells you that 200,000 jobs are looking for employees. tse would have to be proofread before publishing sometimes.
i don't know but esti who have been making shitty games since 2013
worse if we stop all subsidies?
socialization of losses and privatization of profits as always.
bombardier: *chuckle* i'm in danger.
so that he does not act like ea montreal, i suppose
why set up ubisoft as a hairpin? not all industries in quebec are subsidized directly or indirectly ...
"in quebec, the" tax credit for the production of multimedia titles "program, administered by investissement québec, is a program for financing the production of video games through a refundable tax credit on salaries that can be paid. reach 37.5% of the remuneration. this program provides that a video game "which encourages violence, sexism or discrimination" cannot be recognized as an eligible title "
in fact according to the criteria of the state ubisoft should not be eligible
corporate bs ... you get used to them by the same ... what do you expect ...
it is so that they release a reskin of the same game not finished every year! obviously!
why is the government still subsidizing rad can
> the overall refusal rate is also much higher in quebec than in the rest of the country, according to data provided to le devoir by immigration, refugees and citizenship canada (ircc). the difference is attributable, among other things, to the main recruitment pools for the province, compared to the rest of canada.
> in less than two years, between january 2020 and september 2021, ottawa refused 35,642 candidates from the main french-speaking countries of the maghreb and west africa who wanted to come to quebec. during this time, the number of students from india - who mainly intend to take courses in english - has reached new heights, especially in the quebec college network.
> in the other provinces, india represents a large part of the pool of foreign students, but its refusal rate is much lower than for these french-speaking african countries. it was only 30% for the first nine months of 2021, well below that of the countries of origin for quebec.
> what is more, the refusal rate of applicants from the same country of origin is sometimes higher in quebec than in the rest of canada. in 2020, requests from côte d'ivoire were, for example, refused 75% in quebec and 68% in the rest of canada.
> this gap can be explained in part by a “lack of knowledge of the place of the college network in the higher education system” by ircc, according to the fédération des cégeps. several students are thus refused a study permit in a cegep "because the agent considers that the request does not correspond to the course, on the basis of the educational path", says francis brown.
honestly, i believe that it is more of a bias against applicants for temporary african permits than francophones in general. french and belgians are accepted at rates comparable to those from other western european countries. and if memory serves, nigeria, ghana and kenya are among the countries with the lowest student permit acceptance rates, and they are all countries where english is the official language.
my cousin got married to a malian.
the poor man has not seen his daughter for eight years because ottawa refuses him to immigrate here.
long live the free quebec!
how convenient....
what's the point of remaining in the canadian federation?
immigration should be a responsibility of the provinces not federal, because in the end anyway it is the province that will have to spend the money of its taxpayer to integrate its immigrants, so it should be the choice of quebec if it refuses or accepts such or such immigrant, and canada has no say in the matter as long as the immigrant stays in quebec. and it seems weird to me that part of refusing the student because ottawa thinks he's going to stay in canada? isn't it the taxpayer who pays the biggest price for universities and companies? it is therefore in my eyes positive if the person who used the taxpayer's dollars for his education ultimately stays in the country whose money was spent rather than going elsewhere with 0 taxpayer benefits.
anyone surprised?
fuck ottawa. we make a country. they spend their time laughing at us anyways ... they will laugh less than 23% of the economic value of the country will disappear suddenly.
it's for their own good, so they won't have to endure quebec racism.
in the commonwealth, my dear, we are a great family and we look after each other.
too bad, i liked them ivorians in my classes. i know that at laval university the community of african students is growing. awareness in french-speaking countries is accentuated to increase the acceptance rate, but let's say that a few years ago when legault passed close to all crowning them outside because he said he did not recognize all the diplomas, it creaked a freight.
joke aside, i work with indians who have north shore accents and their buttocks the first time. it is so beautiful.
you have to compare what is comparable also yes.
education in india is very good and the majority of those here are there for masters in engineering or others. comparatively in africa, universities are rated much less than those in india so it makes sense that there are more refusals, for europe education is similar so not so many points.
after that, what good are the academics, because the missing manpower in quebec and canada is mainly jobs resulting from dec / dep and with the increasing education rate we will really run out of technicians. the day we're going to poke around with too many engineers it's going to be funny lol. however in quebec with the oiq people with master's degrees do not have the right to the title so it's a little quieter
> and if memory serves, nigeria, ghana and kenya are among the countries with the lowest student permit acceptance rates, and they are all countries where english is the official language.
good point, it would be interesting to check that out.
could also be useful to have the reasons for refusal. it can be as stupid as a lot of poorly made request because the info they have there is wrong.
back off with your common sense, we have identity grievances to file!
but what a strange situation.
doesn't the fact that she marry give her canadian citizenship?
and ... can't they get on the plane and see him?
... but the rockies !!
to be in a country that has a stellar reputation (when you just look at the varnish on the surface) around the world?
the attitude of the federal government towards international students has always been bizarre. i am a naturalized citizen who came as a student. even though the government has put in place post-graduation immigration programs, it is almost taboo to mention to immigration officials that you will one day use them.
absolutely not. the durham report is still alive and well!
esti! it costs just 1km from 3rd link!
go!
me reading this with two children in daycare at $ 48 / day ..... * sigh *
our children will be in elementary school before we have a cpe
it's like $ 1000 per pay! i would fail
render there ... it's a choice ... i want children, but i want to have them brought up by others ... have no children ...
yeah. there is an early return but it comes back to us at 25 / child / day
you say ... imagine the family vacation you ...
if my wife would have a slightly lower paying job i think i would ask her to stop working to take care of the floats. 1 less tank, 70% less gas, the house in order, i no longer need to do daycare and supper, etc, etc ...
it's been like that for a long time in california because of the cost of child care.
thank you for that relevant comment from the 1950s. sounds like being a mother and having a career is too much.
are better to become a doctor
i understand that the person above was a little strong on his answer, but it remains that he has a point and that having children is a choice. personally, i wouldn't want to live all the responsibilities that come with having a career and being a mother in addition. it's more like the 1950s when a single salary allowed the whole family to eat and have a home.
if nobody has children, there could have been a problem
“thus, contrary to what many believe, language is not a simple tool for communicating a thought that would pre-exist in all its purity somewhere in the limbo of the mind, but rather the raw material in which this thought can. to be sculpted to exist. ”
what a quote!
it would be interesting to explore the complex question of the blurred border between denunciation, sometimes legitimate, of classism on the one hand, and anti-intellectualism on the other.
also, the submission of education to the dictates of the labor market, which does not care about culture, creating a permanent tension towards the devaluation of these skills.
it may sound like a very literary wording, but i find it interesting. reversing the idea that it is not just thought that shapes written language but also the reverse. the richer and more developed a language, the more so will the thought be.
i would like to see legitimate denunciations of classicism. because often when we hear about it, it is related to the job market, the lack of interest of young people, etc.
my little poets go! it's friday everything is allowed.
in another sub, not long ago (philosophy or psychology) they said that in countries where languages do not have certain words to express emotions, people treat these emotions badly. mourning was cited as an example.
i think on reddit the word schaddenfreude would be an example that many have learned here. and it's true that once you know the word, it sounds like you experience it differently.
the more you know, the more you know the limits of your knowledge.
small reminder that, according to the un, the forced sterilization of people within a group constitutes a form of genocide.
air quebec and legault tell me, however, that systemic racism does not exist ... what to think?
do we start over with the old silliness?
the leftist and their conspiracy theories, "doctors form secret society to commit genocide i have no evidence and the native birth rate is higher than the canadian average but look i have 2 random cases here, so it's true"
"yeah but when i recited the hippocratic oath i didn't know it applied to the natives !!!"
but there is no sterilization, quite the contrary the population of the natives increases because they make more children than the others.
[deleted]
are a lot of people on this sub who believe that systemic racism doesn't exist?
because there is no systemic racism.
but what are you talking about ??
bin there! indians are not people
/ s to be sure
dude, do you know how difficult it is for a woman who asks him to be sterilized? it is completely ridiculous that aboriginal women are without free and informed consent.
yes! at least, that they think there is no systemic racism in quebec. they adhere like good wine to the words of the prime minister and mathieu bock-côté who say that it does not exist
yes like me.
😉
are you not able to understand? i see why you believe all the can radio nonsense.
would have to rename it hypocrites oath in this case.
i thought that a lot of people understood that legault bullshit for exclusively political reasons.
actually no. you distort the information.
this misunderstanding stems from a difference in definition. do not stay stuck on words in life, it's pointless your semantic debates and it does not help things.
légault and many adopt a definition that there is no law or racist system in quebec. like, we don't have a law that targets a race or an ethnicity.
on the other hand, for other people it goes much further to know that each interaction, even without being codified in law / rules can result from racism even unintentionally.
for example, if statistically blacks pursue fewer studies or have a higher rate of stubble, then you have something racist somewhere that gives these results. if poorer neighborhoods have fewer trees, that would be systemic racism. etc.
in short, everything and nothing is racist, nonsense.
[deleted]
not on this sub anyway
bread and games
and yes, hockey culture above all else. you have to keep the level low.
so populist that legault puts his face in the spotlight to talk about hockey .. but it is true that there are serious player development problems in the structures of hockey quebec. the proportion of players drafted from the qmjhl is dropping visibly and it was time for those thoughts to be done. it's just ridiculous that it comes from legault as if it was a national priority.
i remind you that the prize for the most cynical quote does not belong to him. it comes back to voldemort harper who declared that canada did not have the means to adhere to the kyoto protocol. so let's ask the bc who does not have the means today?
i don't understand what's the problem with this news. chu ben happy. someone wants to explain to me
what
huh, i missed a piece, there was * what * mononc legault?
it's just because the elections are coming up, and the craq is absolutely dependent on the vote of the boomer hams who follow hockey because they would otherwise risk getting interested in politics and it would risk electing less politicians. cellars than the ones we have ....
osti that i don't care about hockey
the comparison is relatively miserable ...
infinit state of emergency is infinit.
it is so not the role of a pm that wtf.
in addition, it's a bit of a fuck you to all quebecers who don't like hockey (like it's problematic that we are not all hockey players).
this government is a champion of mediocrity. what a buffoon.
damn i really can’t understand french quebecois slang lol
haha! nice one!
ouin uh ... at worst we take out the photo of the ice storm for a contest of the one who pisses the furthest.
look at the last names of the people on the committee. no risk of having nguyen or murphy in there.
atleast in bc you can take a right on a red ffs.
delete that
no bread no gain
rest in peace
mr. cerf "roe deer" devirginie
2019 - 2021
take the deer to the nearest butcher, and buy yourself a tomb freezer. it'll probably get you more meat than tank.
it depends if the deer was insured i think
it should be illegal to post like this without a picture of the truck after the accident!
i ask for a photo!
if heap no b3 will not have any insurance :(
i have totally lost a yaris in a deer. i sympathize.
> it was an old truck insured with only civil liability! do you think i could claim some money?
to ask the question, is to answer it.
🙏🙏🙏
rest in pieces my dear pickup
i have already run into a deer and called my insurer. the clerk asked me if i had an amicable report ... tse when you follow your script to the letter.
oh but i have b3 !!! but i thought that didn't include accidents like hitting a deer ??
rip
it says all the risks except colission or reversals .... it is a big colission that i had with the deer so i imagine that it is not covered?
did you have your b3 protection? 😅
so .... since i have b3 protection, am i covered?
tell us about your pickup, so we can remember the good times with you. what was his name?
hahah, real tragedy of the century !!
ouin worse if yer died it is you an amicable report? 😅😅
collision with a deer is not a "collision" within the meaning of b3. a collision with an animal is covered under b3 it seems to me.
> it's a big colission that i had with the deer so i imagine that it is not covered?
issshhhhh.
the same idea is rephrased 20 times, over 20 lines
> quebec is a colonized people
avoid reading yourself.
mbc will not want to admit it, but the sovereign wing of quebec solidaire has a much healthier vision of the emancipation of the quebec people. after the problem is that it is not all qs which thinks like its sovereign wing.
short and disappointing!
how does qs have a healthier view of empowerment? from what i understand, independence is for qs only a means to carry out their project. it is not to give sovereignty to the quebec people and make them master of their own destiny, nor to finally give french america a country.
ah yes, he has the surly federalist wing ...
qs is only a sovereignist to please, they do not care, as long as their vision of the world is achieved.
they use sovereignty as a lever to achieve their goal, which is not independence.
so if they're elected, they'll throw that promise away.
for this sort of "leftist" there, sovereignty is a petty-bourgeois thing, so it's not good.
but they are too thick to understand that in a colonial context, leftists are necessarily nationalists.
i've been saying it here for months and getting downvoted, or being told that i don't want working conditions improved.
we should * not * rejoice at the surge in wages. by one it means an inflationary cycle and loss of purchasing power.
two, (and i was told that they kills if the medium of affairs doesn't work) the net effect will be a loss of local and independent businesses in favor of the big chains which can absorb the bad weather. the market itself does what the big companies do when they want to set up a monopoly: bleed the small ones until they disappear.
just make me tell me that the pig's trot guy ain't a millionaire and i'll believe that the little ones don't mean so much.
economy of scale something something ...
are not the "bad" americans as "bad" as they say?
no shit the big corporation has the means to raise the wages, the small no.
except that the big corporation will still pass the bill on to the customers ...
our left-reactionaries who say that it is up to them to change if not that they die do not realize that this is what the big corporations want, to kill the small ones to have a monopoly to be able to do what they want by the following.
by killing the little one by increasing his wages, the big one gives himself the right to do what he wants, lowering the quality of services, lowering the quality of working conditions, massive increase in prices, withdrawal of customer services, reduction the number of employees, etc.
worse, the owner of a small business doesn't make 1,000,000 a year, they often work 60-70 hour weeks to reap very little in return, not like the walmart family there.
lol @les p’tits shills de walmart
it is a lot of labor that is monopolized by an industry that contributes very little to the gdp of quebec.
i think a wave of bankruptcy would be beneficial at this time. these people could easily be replaced in a much better performing industry.
i find it so ironic to see people here who, as far as i can remember, claim to be left-wing, wishing the death of local businesses "because their business model is not good".
first, it is a savage capitalist screeching attitude and second, they are essentially encouraging the domination of multinationals over small local businesses.
if so many quebec smes have difficulty paying their employees well, we should perhaps ask ourselves why and look for a solution instead of putting a quebec owner who probably doesn't even make $ 70,000 a year in the same basket as walmart. or mcdonald's, as if all corporate executives are ultra-rich who just want to take advantage of workers.
what is your solution? chain people to poverty to "subsidize" the existence of smes and a certain purchasing power seems to me just as problematic.
good luck in finding candidates, i hope you will volunteer for this great project!
in fact what would be more relevant is to know the final profit of the restaurant.
because even if the guy makes $ 200k net profit at the end, the labor costs are so multiplicative that even if he drops it has $ 0 profit it doesn't even finance a $ 2-3 increase to the staff
[ marge( you have to believe not ...
it's true that if you want a career in the restaurant business, there is nothing better than freaking out burgers or pushing buttons at mcdonald's.
the point is exactly that after this wave of bankruptcy, well what will remain is the mega corp.
well yes people will be able to get back to work, but if your sme goes bankrupt and you go back to walmart…. it's not a victory
maybe, * but not like that *. this is my point. we consolidate mcdonald's, paccini and gadoua and i see local restaurants and bakeries closing everywhere.
if the owner of one of the best restaurants, known in the world, doesn't even make $ 70,000 / year and pays all his employees at market price or less, for more than a decade ... yep, this model business is not super good. in addition, these jobs generally do not offer benefits and require working rather atypical hours.
it's not normal to work more (a lot more) in a big renowned restaurant, to have more responsibilities, more anxieties, but to receive less money than the employees of a big chain.
the only thing owners can do is increase their prices to better pay their employees. or take less money for themselves. if they can't do either, the establishment should close. it's boring too. whether it's a local business or not.
honestly, the regulars at these great restaurants (and even the people who go there once to try) will royally give a damn about paying $ 385 for a supper, rather than $ 350. the missing money is there, if the product is worth it people will pay the increase ... especially after / during a pandemic.
ok ok, i also understand the concept of tip, that these employees are not paid less than others "at the end of the day". but that doesn't help the cause of the business model. tips and commissions should be abolished in all areas of employment in my opinion ... but that's another debate.
tl; dr: if one of the best restaurants in the world is unable to pay their employees, the business model or the whole system just doesn't work.
forcing people to stay around the poverty line to keep prices low is not very progressive either. if you're vonlontaire that's good, they are apparently hiring!
these posts piss me off. i know some small entrepreneurs, there are several of them who really * cannot * increase by 20%. me too it completely deters me this lack of empathy and collective conscience which hides under the supposed protection of the worker. the simplification of the situation of several speakers here who remachine r / antiwork ca me kid.
this is not to say that all entrepreneurs are angels and that we should not collectively think about the conditions of the employees. but come on not to realize that we are in an economic restructuring which is not easy, .ca will make the villains of comic-books.
i have rarely read so much demagoguery in so few lines.
someone had written a long text on this subject and that it was quite complicated from a tax point of view, because there are deductions linked to his sugar bush which allows him to avoid paying tax if he reinvests in it. etc.
i just still have a lot of trouble with the people trying to sell us that the net margin is 4-5%.
yes your plate has $ 100 with quality meat and quality vegetables but when you buy from your supplier 1000 beef cheeks udder 200 lbs of asparagus, not bad sure that you have an excellent wholesale price which must be the same higher than buying lesser quality for someone at maxi.
easy that your plate at 100 $ has cost 95 $ in products + staff + miscellaneous expenses…. i just don't believe it, i would have to see the numbers in black and white to believe it….
easily if you make more than the 5% claimed, there is room to give a little more to your employees….
the problem is, a large portion of the population has no idea what a company's average profit margin is.
except for software companies, the vast majority of companies cannot raise wages materially without going into deficit or increasing costs.
in the case of martin picard his big money he does with his cookbooks and his tv show.
not with pig's foot. the sugar shack is surely much more profitable than the restaurant!
who takes offense at this? i literally saw no one talking about it.
people who take offense to this should listen to thomas levac's podcast on female masturbation.
young people see beer in the grocery store, not a word.
before they saw cigarettes in the displays ... not a word either.
a super discreet vibrator? unacceptable! is that pathetic.
> several people interviewed by tva nouvelles admitted to feeling uneasy about the sale of these products by the company, especially because several teenage girls frequent dynamite stores.
so, what year was this article written in? 1950?
when will the fleshlight at canadian tire be?
the little people are not made strong! imagine when they will realize that there are in almost all pharmacies in quebec! 🤣
my god we don't care.
fun fact: vibrators were invented to cure women who were stricken with "hysteria" ... in fact, women would go to the doctor who, by means of the vibrator, gave them orgasms, although the female orgasm was not recognized by science.
oh, and it will be noted that in the past, doctors were only accessible to the rich ...
that said, masturbation definitely has its role to play in the harmony of couples.
i now understand why [nicolas ciccone] ( said that "my love for you is dynamite".
no one is complaining, but it reacts as if it was the case ...
wow people are open to that here. when / r / quebec talks about adapting its business model, that must be what it is. pig's foot should start selling it too, it would help pay their employees better
i just think that will fitterajt more in a store like la vie en rose to the limit. i never thought of buying a t-shirt while shopping for a vibrator and vice versa. in pharmacies, it makes a lot of sense since you can buy lube at the same time.
the real question emerging from the article:
seventy-five dollars, a vibrator?
edit: apartment yes, it's the same price they sell it, at [chapters indigo ~!] ( -item.html)
edit 02: cibole, to see the other indigo products, it's expensive to have fun.
i just had to go shopping
the real question: do they look like sticks of dynamite?
pharmacies sell vibrators. we don't care.
the market will self-regulate.
we live in a post-indignation era. now just think that someone else - under certain circumstances - might be offended to play it outraged and shout it from the rooftops.
no doubt the gentleman who entered the store by mistake and who is offended that adult women, namely dynamite's customers, might want to kill two birds by buying a christmas dress and a vibrator.
> who is offended by this?
probably more or less obscure lesbo-islamic collectives.
wait until they learn that you can buy condoms in the street and in public toilets too!
at last. it was nonsense that a person could get tested in canada on a friday, spend the weekend in the united states, then show their friday test on their way home monday morning as "proof" that they did not. not caught covid while in the united states.
do you take a test to get to the other side?
i would plan many weekend trips to the states.
sylvie boucher is made (or always has been, i don't know) full conspi. she made this series because no one wants to hire her anymore. and it works so well that they have picked up a big $ 900 so far for the second season lol
they didn't make the effort to provide subtitles!
i held 6m10, who can say better?
sylvain is incredibly bad as an actor. already surprised at the $ 900
i listened to it all. i am a big fan of "so bad its good". this is just boring.
1m19 for me.
the key word is: for now. i imagine since they won't have their 2nd dose until february.
ok ... fak ours fall when? if it is not necessary for them and the vast majority of older people are vaccinated, i do not quite understand the relevance
it is simply not necessary. children aged 11 and under are generally accompanied by an adult (or are not admitted) in the vast majority of places covered by the vaccination passport.
this would ultimately affect only a minority of children who are not vaccinated while their parents are.
the children of the anti-vaxx are already de facto barred from these places because their parents cannot enter them either.
wasn't there a story that kids don't have photos on their ramq card until they're 12 anyway?
it would be a little silly to implant a vaccination passport but in the end you cannot validate with their face if it is the right child.
at the same time, do we often see 6-year-old children alone in a restaurant?
as long as they don't require the vaccine to go to school (seal cotton wool, my keyboard doesn't want to do an "a" with grave accent anymore, just on reddit ..!).
it would be the last straw. we vaccinate them just to please our friends at pfizer, and also because our health system is always a joke on the brink (even if there are some things excluded and we offload as much as possible to the private sector). it is zero for the protection of children or the 85% already vaccinated in the population ... it is to save the appearance of the system, nothing else ...
yup... key words depuis mars 2019 (2020 wups).
i've been looking for the relevance of the patent since the beginning.
ask mister xy will answer all that
he is already typing
> ok ... fak ours fall when? if it is not necessary for them and the vast majority of older people are vaccinated, i do not quite understand the relevance
you missed the keywords "for now". the vaccination passport did not arrive immediately after the start of adult vaccination. it took a while, long enough for the world to have had a reasonable amount of time to get vaccinated. for the youngest, ** if ** vaccination passport there is, then it will not be until they have all had the opportunity to be vaccinated.
it is simply a political move to disgust the anti-vaxx people who always try to occupy a little too much media space with perpetual misinformation about ** all ** vaccines.
that and there's also the fact that vaccination for children is just beginning. if they ever decide to impose the passport for the children, then it will not be until they have all had the opportunity to be vaccinated.
> it would be a bit silly to implant a vaccination passport but ultimately you cannot validate with their face whether it is the right child.
currently, the health insurance card with no photo is accepted as proof of identity when presenting the vaccination passport: [here] ( coronavirus-2019 / vaccination-against-covid-19 / vaccination-passport-covid-19 / presentation-of-your-vaccination-passport)
* in addition to the qr code, an identity document must be presented for people 16 years of age and over when they want to access a place where the vaccination passport is requested. * *** health insurance cards that had to be renewed without a photo during the pandemic are accepted. *** * for people aged 75 and over, proof of identity without a photo is accepted *. ''
foolish? yeah.
report
pssst march 2020
😂
it's always a pleasure to see him comment! / s
yes you are right.
no need for a passport if there is no situation in which it is necessary. in other words, the children who do not receive the vaccine are likely to be the children of people who themselves have not received the vaccine. suddenly, these unvaccinated children are already indirectly banned from places where anti-vaxx are banned.
the same channel also has a video on the james bay hydroelectric power station project.
one of the worst youtuber.
one was a member of a street gang, had been in trouble with the law and died in battle.
the other was walking in the street.
i say it like that, but maybe skin color isn't the only variable to look at.
when the young south american girl who in january was taken down on jean-talon street, for nothing, there had been the dignitaries who had also come out, and it was not a white woman with a quebec name.
addition: and i am not saying that one for the other was less important, until it is downright not the same circumstances.
the same thing for the young white man who was killed in a fight in laval here 1 or 2 years ago and whose trial of his (supposed) murderer is currently on trial, it did not spark more passions than jannai dopwell-bailey
i really don't like this so unnecessary artificial outrage.
i've noticed a similar phenomenon when teens are wanted, like when it's white cutie girls so everyone is very sorry about this situation and is super empathetic towards the parents. when it is poc, the reaction is really less present. it's pocket: /
prions st-georges-floyd
it seems that i am not the only one who has observed this. apologies from those who insulted me for watching this?
when the double standards are applied by the mayor, the prime minister, the media and the police ... it doesn't start to be a little ... systemic?
> the south american girl
maghrebian
the death of a teenager from guns is tragic regardless. the fact that a 16 year old young man is involved in a criminal gang and dies from it is also fucking terrible and sad. we shouldn't have less empathy.
how do you know thomas is a really random victim and was just walking the streets?
i can't wait for reddit to tell me the result of a criminal investigation before the police themselves
you're right, everything is beautiful 👍
when they are men or teenagers too.
have you already forgotten ariel kouakou or what?
there's just a lot less black, so it happens less often ...
white woman syndrome
hahaha
there's a reason why prosecutors are pushing for adult sentences .. heaps 16 years are in a street gang .. your morale is not great .. if you get out of having taken a life easily it is what the message sent?
the point is that optics side is zero. whether you are black or white, the mayor will not go there. it kills every day. my sympathies to the mother ..
defeats will not come with excuses, you can imagine;)
was the prime minister out? source?
> the death of a teenager from firearms is tragic regardless.
precisely, in this particular case, the young person was stabbed, there was no firearm involved.
it's still terrible and sad, i know, but - from a coldly objective point of view - it doesn't fit the scourge of the hour, which is gun violence. so obviously, it's less talk.
live by the sword die by the sword 
no sympathy denies empathy is his choice.
> how do you know that thomas is a really random victim and was just walking down the street?
this is the portrait that emerges from the testimonies of witnesses, friends and family.
men, unless they've kidnapped someone, we're not really looking for them.
the soldiers fired from the machine gun. just to clarify, a machine gun is not a submachine gun that you dye in your hand like an ak-47, it is a small cannon that stands on a tripod. they shot a crowd of civilians with that.
the investigation showed that the soldiers had received the order to "shoot to kill", "shoot to kill". not shoot to warn, not shoot to disperse the crowd, not shoot to defend yourself, not shoot to kill. kill civilians.
so far, there don't seem to be any excuses planned in justin trudeau's upcoming apology tours.
an ak-47 is not a machine gun, it is an assault rifle.
a submachine gun would be more of what like an mp5
thanks for those details. i am not at all an expert in armaments or in this historical period, not to mention that i have not lived in quebec for a while. but this story touched me a lot, having deeply rooted family in saint-sauveur and many friends in the lower town. my partner lived there for a long time and it was he who pointed out the monument to me, which i find very sober and suitable for meditation.
yes indeed, thank you for the precision, but you understand that the idea is that the machine gun is not a weapon that the soldier holds in his hand, like a machine gun, a rifle that shoots repeatedly or something like that but a small cannon that is installed on a tripod.
soldiers are surprised by a hostile crowd, they shoot with the weapons they normally have with them and which are part of the soldier's basic equipment. they defend themselves.
an officer had a machine gun posted at the corner of saint-vallier and saint-joseph to wait for the crowd repelled from place jacques-cartier further east, that is not defense, it is a trap and it's premeditated and planned.
(and that's after the cavalry charged the crowd earlier in the day.)
yep, the major difference is the caliber by the way
for everyone's reference, the weapon categories:
* revolver(colt)
* submachine gun or submachine gun (mp5. sten, thompson, beretta 93r, etc ...)
* fusil (m1903 springfield, kar98, lee-enfield, mosin-nagant, etc..)
* fusil d'assault (m16, ak47)
* fusil de combat (m1 garand, fn fal, h&k g3)
* machine gun (m60, mg42, etc ...)
* sniper rifle (dragunov svu, barrett m95, m24, etc ...)
for reference, what sets each type apart is a set of characteristics (for example, submachine guns vs machine guns, it is the caliber that sets them apart, machine guns using pistol bullets, and submachine guns using rifle bullets. full size, etc ...)
i don't think the caliber is the essential difference here; the caliber size doesn't matter for the 14-year-old stream that was killed.
the essential difference for me is that the machine gun, on a tripod, must be set up and stationed, in a precise place, to wait, surprise and trap. it takes planning and premeditation.
moreover, the criminal code differentiates between manslaughter, non-premeditated murder and premeditated murder and the size of the caliber does not matter. you can be convicted of a first degree murder, a premeditated murder, committed with a butter knife.
my sweet! are you my son (-:
he is also very knowledgeable about ancient weapons and always enriches our visits to museums here or in europe, military or not! you are wonderful the specialized brains who manage to explain your interests to the boeotians!
> the essential difference for me is that the machine gun, on a tripod, must be installed and posted, in a precise place, to wait, surprise and trap. it takes planning and premeditation.
you're right. it is this "detail" that leaves us silent. especially since the soldiers were surely for some from quebec. in any case, if you haven't read it, i recommend [living in a working-class neighborhood. saint-sauveur, 1930-1980] (
by dale gilbert.
on the sûreté du québec, i honestly have zero opinions. in urban areas, you don't really see them often, and i have lived all over montreal. my cousins from the maritimes see them more often.
the police in general? possibly better than elsewhere, but often disconnected from the reality of the people with whom she works.
very anecdotal, but a rare time i watched tv he was playing a "police reality" show where a camera was following a patrol that responded to various calls. one of those calls was from a taxi driver to a woman who was consuming and had taken the taxi with no money to pay.
in the middle of the confrontation, the camera cuts to the policeman who speaks to the camera and explains his approach to us. he tells us that she is known locally and that they often have to maneuver these kinds of people in a particular way that they have been trained for etc. etc.
cut back to the policeman who talks to the girl: "yeah, but there at some point you will have to understand that there are consequences to your actions, eh? what are we going to do, call môman? call daddy? want? well, well, let's go. ". the girl's tears redouble.
i was quite speechless. câlisse, is that the top of the training at nicolet? if as long as they say to themselves that these should be on tv? the policeman seemed to have good intentions, but cursed that his training was not showing.
i'll see tomorrow morning if i can't find the episode on tou.tv
i think the majority are fairly neutral towards the police. we understand that they are there to do their job, that the majority are correct but that there are bad apples as in all professions (bad teachers, bad doctors etc.)
i say that as a white suburban matante.
i'm pretty sure i would have a very different opinion if i were a young man of color in a red light district of montreal….
honestly, i have never had any problems with the sûreté du québec. it is the municipal police officers who think of themselves as the kings of the world (like montreal, longueuil, repentigny).
not very effective, having tried the sq and the spvm several times. arrogant too. to be avoided in both cases, honestly.
in all trades, there are good and bad. it's a bit more complex when the "bad" has a badge and a gun, but the good one more than makes up for it.
our police officers have a longer and more complete training than those of our neighbors to the south, which is commonplace here is an exception (like villanueva who was shot because he throated a police officer)
what i think of them is that i wouldn't do their jobs. you hang out with the worst idiots all day long and you never know what can happen to you…. injury, spitting, insult etc. etc.
no matter how much you are trained for it, i think no one is really trained to be insulted / threatened / assaulted every day of every week. none of our little snowflakes could do their jobs for just one day ...
it's like everywhere, the "wokes" will say it's rubbish, and normal people will defend and support the police.
[deleted]
sûreté du québec, spvm and p-ê spvq, they are very well organized, very professional, but there are thick ones like anywhere, that being said, there are well organized control bodies in these three police forces. .
the police in granby and other small towns, mard eater osties who stop all motorcycles to test the noise, but will let their friends pass with their new f250 modified pollution control erased, jacked more than legal.
the job of the police is to suppress violently if necessary, the mass movements of the people for their liberation. they are the armed defenders of the capitalist class.
so whether provincial or municipal, it is a structure to be abolished if we want to improve the living conditions of the masses.
at the same time, you cannot expect an intervention of the social worker or street worker type with a "training" which is probably only one court in the whole of the police officer's college career ... i have a police friend in longueuil and he doesn't hide it that his job is practically 80% of social intervention but you're still stuck with your training as a police officer to deal with that.
thanks for your review, it's nice to get a taste of how the font is viewed elsewhere. this story is concerning, i hope it is just made for dramatic effect.
i totally agree with you. thank you for your reply!
i'm a normal guy, and i say the cops are just looking for trouble.
mdr wow it seems you've never had to deal with them, or if so you were lucky ... having dealt with them as a victim of assault, and having been blamed and my attacker defended and his violence justified by the police themselves while i was attacked only because my attacker did not want me to leave the place we were in while he was aggressive for no reason (probably the alcohol or sth), i can confirm that the majority are incompetent and do not do their job, and many of them are cruel to the victims, arrogant, prejudiced and did not become police for the right reasons. . we will not talk about the behavior of the police when i received two tickets because i made mistakes while driving my car or when i received one for ... nothing, like literally the justification of the police officer was not not consistent and made no sense to me. so yes there are some who look good and do their duty and are fair and respectful, but the hatred directed towards the majority is very justified.
here in newfoundland you see a mix of “wokes” and people who don't like authority. the “fuck you pig” people if that makes sense. thank you for the answer!
[deleted]
thanks for the links and your response.  it seems that there are similar problems in most police forces.  hope we can do better in the future.
i agree that in any police force there will always be bad officers and i hope the monitoring agencies will hold them accountable. small town policing is often the same everywhere, i guess. thank you for your reply!
i recognize your answer, but in what i've seen in other reviews you seem to be one of the boring "wokes". no matter what you think, leftists, the police will always be a structure in any society.
well, now that the situation has changed and that the work of the police is mainly social intervention, should not the training adapt to their new reality? it might just be a matter of time, tbh.
guess which group canada is in:
-camp of the yes (157 member states)
-no camp (us, israel + 4 other members)
how does this relate to quebec? i see nothing here mentioning it.
canada has been the 53rd state in international politics for a long time ...
liberals on law 21 "kewbek racisssste towards muslims"
liberals on palestine "palestine? what is that?"
canada voted against.
>seven countries – canada, israel, marshall islands, federated states of micronesia, nauru, palau and the united states – voted against the motion, with 14 abstentions.
also note that there is no rule in r/quebec saying that articles unrelated to quebec cannot be posted.
ouuh a british canadian who saw my crossing post!
welcome darthmouthgoose, enjoy your stay <3
fyi this article is about our international relations, moreover about a repressed minority canada is actively financing war against. much like when catalonia and scotland held referendums, a good portion of quebecers feel it's worthwhile to talk about it.
hope that makes it clear!
well, it's good that we pay attention to our relations with nauru and palau at least, should not offend them. not to mention the marshall islands!
and quebec is not mentioned in the story.
i am an anglo-canadian of scottish descent, and my position on this is consistent:
any nation (like you define a nation) that wins a referendum to separate from a nation (like i define a nation) by majority vote, absolutely should.
however, they had better be able to take care of themselves, without help. there is no half-ass parting. once out, the umbilical cord is cut.
i look forward to the day when we all get what we want. :)
thanks for your support of québec's distincthood from the federal government, but in the meantime, canada's international voice is ours, for worse or worst.
oh absolutely. on the other hand, whose help is it talking about? certainly a freed palestine would not ask for help from israel (at least for the time being, they could probably ask for "reparations" eventually), but would probably receive some from neighboring arab countries anyway.
and quebec is mentioned where?
unfortunately, the situation is very different from that of scotland and catalonia. too much money provided by people who believe in fairy tales. i don't have any great ideas for this whole mess. this is just another great example of why the best separation is the separation of religion and state.
a liberated palestine would have no choice but to collaborate closely with israel. the two nations are linked for better or for worse.
maybe you missed it, so here's the relevant part again:
>canada's international voice is ours, for worse or worst.
if you believe this subreddit should only be about quebec's internal matters, then you should take this with the moderation team.
worse you? kessé you doing here?
okay, but something tells me that selling the idea of a secular state on the "most sacred" piece of clay on the planet is going to be tough in simonak too! x)
he followed me from the post i posted on r / canada on the same topic, looks good. people had pretty much the same reaction to the article there as / u / dartmouthgoose1750 ...
well ... another innocent who whines
if for an amber alert, stop it.
it's not as if you were serious in your day even if i admit that the sound is striking when you are not expecting it.
edith: it was posted by a stan from mbc, now i understand more.
well, another sassy post on alerts ...
it's an amber alert, it's important and if it was your kid you'd want it sent!
yes, alerts tend to occur when an urgent situation occurs.
found
heille sacrament, do you make your whining posts when a child goes missing / is in danger?
simonac stop looking at your navel, turn off the alert and come back to it.
end.
stai what i did not receive her
correction: another asshole that kidnapped a child.
coliss i was sleeping.
/s
it didn't last long, they found her ...
i don't know if he's stan from mbc but i think he's just a troll
i see it on a lot of threads these late days it's always to say really caricatured matters and which smell of the troll. i think he just wanna downvotes and cause reaction
attends?
next thing you're gonna tell me is that 1 + 1 = 2?
i don't believe you. (/ s preventive)
alber amber
it was his mother yeah
it works. i wonder if the kidnapper received the amber and turn back alert.
i don't know if it's just me thinking that but you have to have a dull life to find that edifying.
or well it's me who becomes a bit boomer.
such said
as long as you don't tell me we can squeal a skidoo in the yard, we're okay!
ex
ishhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
a piece of news that may seem trivial, but what i find particularly interesting is this piece about the mayor:
> mr. guy charbonneau was ordered to pay a fine of $ 10,000 in addition to the contribution and legal costs.
it is not often that we see elected officials being penalized by the melcc.
the sad thing about this is that there is nothing in the law to revert the illegal changes back to the previous state, just make sure you pay the lawyers.
in the end it still leads to papineau which is not made to accommodate more traffic.
it just moves the bottlenecks.
an idea of marde especially
i saw [the ad go on twitter] ( and the comments are delicious.
vroum! vroum! vroum! fuck montréal!
worse after that it will cry on montreal and the bicycle piss that there is traffic
well no, on the contrary, it will lighten the traffic on the 13, the 15 and the 25, and save time and fuel for all those who live on the north shore and who work in the city center, it is is good for the environment, that! and that's not going to encourage urban sprawl either. ^ / s
tanks in traffic it pollutes, faque ca will cause less pollution there will be less traffic!
/ s (this is the stupid argument that comes out most often, not everyone understands that more tanks on more roads = more pollution in the end)
it will never work ... it's sad, but we will always hang around, because several badly thought out bases are protected on all sides. even unions are responsible for part of the problem. there are leaders in each group.
i hate the word reform ... false word harbinger of false change .. re-form the same thing ..
yes we call that to privatize the health system, but no we can not even talk about it because it goes against the neoliberal ideology which plagues the west.
what would a better word be?
there are no other words ... reform is a bit of repeating the same thing
> quebec solidaire (qs) activists want to reopen the state secularism act to remove the ban on the wearing of religious symbols and delete its exemption provisions. the party will debate the proposal this weekend, at its convention in montreal.
> the spokesperson for the political formation, camila rodriguez-cea, confirmed to le devoir that activists had submitted a draft modification to the management. this establishes that “a united government will amend the law on the secularism of the state to remove the discriminatory articles concerning the prohibition of the wearing of religious symbols […] and the derogatory clauses”.
i don't think the party is happy with this initiative.
nice weekend in perspective for qs.
if you prefer to lose your job rather than removing your religious symbol, well either you are really afraid of your god which does not make your religion very attractive, or you are really afraid of your community which really does not help islamophobia .
"yes, but my convictions! my choices!"
everyone has convictions, makes personal choices and has positions on certain issues, but everyone agrees that there are places where these things are not appropriate, like the job. you won't see someone at subway wearing a "black lives matter" t-shirt or a cegep teacher with an anti-vaxx symbol. even if you believe hard in something, if you are not able to leave this in your head or at home for a while it means that you wear your symbol because you are afraid of real or imagined reprisals. if you take it off.
worse precisely, it is to filter people who are too slaves to their beliefs / communities that the law exists.
i like that they come up with good ideas (35h week with month vacation) but then they do that.
if i understand correctly, they would not overturn bill 21, but they would let the courts decide.
i find this to be a good compromise.
i am against bill 21, but i fear repeated reversals if one party overthrows it and then another puts it back and so on. so i agree with the idea that the judges decide for good.
oh no, my child will see veiled teachers and turn terrorist!
popcorn.gif
you will never make me believe that voluntary submission to a symbol of domination is an act of conscience, it is cultural manipulation, nothing else. we are well placed to understand here, but we are so fearful, we know how to do just one thing, apologize for existing.
all the same ironic people who are against canceling culture but who are for canceling the freedom of religion of certain individuals 🤔
oops, i withdraw my prediction from qs as the official opposition. a beautiful political suicide all that ...
... and on the 8th day, god created stupidity and quebec solidaire. the school fees were turned into pots and everyone bowed down to this disciple of god to whom we owe the creation of the world.
> i don't think the party is happy with this initiative.
the politbureau awaits its orders from mecca ...
i largely agree with this argument. intransigence is not a healthy way to practice your religion. it would be absurd to especially want to accommodate the most fundamentalists among believers.
on the other hand, religion is a form of world view (cosmology) and this view gives meaning to everyday life. considering that each individual has their own cosmology (more or less shared with others), anything has the potential to be a religious sign. this is what pastafarians brilliantly demonstrated by getting to wear a spaghetti strainer on their driver's license photo. when we possibly specify the prohibition positively, it becomes a game of political power. why ban such and such a symbol and not another? in my opinion, we should not refuse teachers who hide their hair for the same reason that we do not refuse tattooed teachers.
like spinoza, i think that freedom of expression and freedom of religion are a bit the same thing. while the emphasis is on explaining that no words are forbidden at university, another measure should not be used to arbitrarily restrict freedom of religion.
above all, you have to stay calm and exercise your judgment.
it is as if they were afraid of becoming drinkable for a majority of voters ...
> i am against law 21
why?
how can anyone be logically against law 21?
i don't think having a veiled teacher makes you a terrorist.
on the other hand, i think that a person who is not able to let go of his religious symbol when he is at work is not a reasonable enough person to teach my child.
if private or english schools want to allow it, they do well, but i don't think the future will be more religious than it is today.
they are therefore anything but progressive in their reasoning.
edith: format
oh no, take off her veil during working hours!
my sex teacher who was anti-contraception who made tit-guys think that the spermicide in condoms would make them infertile for life was openly religious.
i know he would have said the same thing without showing the signs, but if he would have obeyed the law, he might have submitted to the required program?
it's all guesswork, but religion and personal beliefs don't matter at school.
seriously, the best teacher i had in my life was jewish and often wore his kippah in class, especially when it came to the holocaust, as a sign of belonging (and not religion in her case). he was curious, socialist, feminist, anti-racist, hypersensitive, poet, engaged in humanitarian works to improve the rights of children. it had "top quality" course content and a proven teaching method. he was growing the general culture of his students in no time. on the other hand, i had quebec teachers of catholic origin who were openly misogynistic, racist, aggressive, without empathy and without commitment. well, if we are to believe the debate that has been going on since the mid-2000s, the first would not be really quebecois (even if his family has been here for 200 years) while the others would represent the "real" quebec. it's funny, i take the first without hesitation, while i highly doubt the professionalism of the secondary 2 history teacher who refused to teach women's history because women are supposedly inferior, without imagination and without accomplishment. the same teacher also triumphed over ancient greece because, i quote, "women could not vote, and they had it" ... his colleague was pro-rape punitive too ... but it looks like it's the "kippah" that was unprofessional and quebecois ...
no irony.
the culture of banishment has nothing to do with secularism.
band of cellars lollll
a country? no.
an 11th province? maybe, but would have to drill a couple of holes in gaspesie.
but i think about it every time i realize how quebec has become three solitudes.
i leave to others the stories of international law and sovereignty of the territory. i can understand that this is a nice intellectual exercise for some, but in my case it is not. me the aspect that interests me is the "would you be better?"
> quebec has become three solitudes
what is the third?
but can you imagine, eastern quebec becomes a tax haven and a french tourist destination, acquires all the rights in terms of environmental protection and obtains a seat at the un?
edit: i'm exaggerating for tax haven. it's an example
montreal, eastern quebec, and "the rest", i believe.
montreal vs quebec vs regions
centreville vs banlieues vs regions
franco vs anglo
it all changes depending on the issue but it seems like we're always at loggerheads on any subject these days.
in the old days a region wanted something, it did. the deputy of the region was going to see the minister "we would take this from us ..." "ok ... don't move, we'll fix it for you ..."
today there is no way to do anything without the entire province having a say or tearing its shirt off.
the worst is when your deputy who lives in the region, whose job is to represent his or her region, but he or she has the same positions as an elected official from montreal (or spends his time trying to please the media in montreal) tse, trudeau, i don't like him because he prefers to be loved by, and represent everyone on the ball except canada, don't do that on a local scale.
ok. however, i will also add the outaouais as a separate region. we are "the rest" in "the rest".
a widespread scam.
sorry, but in less than a week you will be reduced to working for a drug cartel.
its stinks!
seriously, why pay for a service to pay even more for anything you want at a discount?
not able to make a transfer to you must send a company to bring you money which is cali… well of the item.
scam ask yourself no more questions otherwise you will be -700 soon.
if it is not in person, it is a scam, final stick for any exchange on kijiji and marketplace.
it happened to me many times, i do not answer any more afterwards because it is clear that it is a fraud. who decides to buy and pay for a used item without even seeing it? lol
then you will receive an email from "globex" telling you about fees before you can receive your money and if you do not answer, they will threaten you because theirs has caused costs and you have to pay them until the transaction has occurred. place or not.
it is a fairly widespread scam but more and more people are aware of it.
it's not right here, even in europe the phenomenon exists.
globex, ems express
both are often used
never this way, but globex is indeed a courier service that does cod.
it looks like a scam
it happened to a friend last month ... it's a scam!
it is a well known scammer money laundering method. shit the guy or report it to the police.
there is a fraudster with an fb account in the name of herti oesterle who is quite active on the marketplace, he wanted to buy me my roller skates, and the washer-dryer of a girl in the perusse fan group.
the same copy-paste text 'i will send fedex express to give you an envelope of money, then i will send tnt for the recovery of the goods'.
it is most likely a scam, but in your case you are not risking much. since this is cash and not a payment method that can be reversed or canceled, it costs you nothing to try and see if the money will actually arrive. as long as you don't send the item to him before receiving full payment, the worst that can happen is that you will receive some messages with insults and threats that are completely unfounded.
it's a scam that's been around for a long time. they send you a payment that takes a long time to arrive (eg. cash envelope, paypal with debit card instead of credit, etc.) and they will try to force you to send the item before the payment is 100% completed.
also, never accept a payment method that will be reversed if the person declares it to be fraudulent or if they claim to have received something defective. most payment platforms will default to the buyer's side and it's up to you to prove beyond any doubt that the person lied. it's practically impossible to do and in a lot of cases he doesn't even give you a chance to defend yourself. in quebec the ideal is an interac e-transfer because it is supported by all banks and they are irreversible.
i'm just doing business with the brinks for $ 700.
scam!
give a fake address, like a police station, and give the email address of someone you don't like, just for fun.
it happened to my boyfriend yesterday!
he asked "does this thing often work"? and it's made to answer something like "yes, otherwise we wouldn't do it".
it's a scam.
do not
scam sends the peter!
i like the format, but as a satire it's about as dishonest as a review of _wokes_ by the journal de montreal.
the real joke is seeing extremes caricatured without ever bothering to listen to yourself. it makes you cry.
again, +1 for the pastiche.
how to say you're a boomer without saying it
?
how to say you're a woke without saying it
is he talking about himself there?
how do i say i'm going to make myself popcorn without saying it, but actually i said it?
i presume he saw the word "wokism" and immediately imagined puncher denise bombardier, even before listening to the video.
i can understand the feeling.
guys i did not understand it ...
tabarnak, even saying it out loud, i had to come and read the comments to understand ...
one or three. never two 😂
not living in france, i can’t speak for the french people but as a québécois i often order two sunnyside up at normandin. question bizarre ...
one egg-enough
take it easy, i looked at my screen like a deer in front of a car for a long time before coming here to see the explanation
enough-english, an egg-french. they sound similar in english.
ciborium, i would never have understood. thank you
ooooooooooh
thank you.
doesn't that sound more like "enoffe"? like, you need a nasty accent to bring the two together.
yeah, you have to really exaggerate the accent.
how does it promote islamophobia ???
it contributes to a certain idleness. how we can educate people to make a difference in the conception of islam than in your quiet neighbor fahid and that of isis. i am completely confused and outraged. but what a lack of courage ... it's pathetic and disgusting.
how is that offensive? sorry, but i am a muslim and isis is political shit.
the same principle as advocating abstinence reduces the transmission of stis. if we do not talk about it to young people precisely so that they differentiate mohamed in the class of a jihadist, we run the risk that it will have the opposite effect.
next step: to ban all the books of the second world war and especially the testimonies of survivors of the camps, that could offend the germans.
it's me or it's literally racist to make a connection between "isis terrorists" and "muslims in general".
like you want to be anti-racist so badly that you ... become racist. wat?
we went from: "it is not said because it is literally an insult" to "it is not said because it could be an insult" to "it is not said because it offends the sensitivity of people who have even not related to the subject and that even if those who it could target, understand the idea behind the subject and do not feel insulted, we do not say it so as not to risk hitting other small snowflakes "
society. sick.
i can tell you it's not going to get any better. there is an extremely unhealthy culture of overprotection of students right now in education and with the next generation of teachers it will get worse.
i just finished my baccalaureate in teaching french in high school, people in my cohort were pretty quick on censorship. in a children's literature class, several criticized the works we read, saying “i see several triggers in her novel, i'm never going to make my students read that”…
in internship, i was told that it was a very bad idea to play the film okja in order to debate the future of meat consumption in our society, because “the animal in the film looks like a pig, which could offend muslim students ”.
in short, if you knew to what extent teachers avoid bringing controversial subjects to the table, however small the controversy may be… the students really don't have the chance to be confronted by anything, it's pretty sad.
it's the world upside down....
*it's the world at the inverse....*
canada is a politically correct joke, then we allow ourselves to laugh at the americans
toronto is not canada.
a school board does not represent all schools in canada.
title which leads to an abusive generalization.
wtf
it's shooting yourself in the foot all this mess. especially since nadia murad is well aware of the difference between isis and islam. it pisses me off because what she went through is filthy and that she is censored even though she takes every precaution not to make mistakes is absurd and mind-blowing
“canadian wokeism rides again”. new episode in the war woke wokes in canada against western culture.
they censured a lecturer at the university of ottawa for having used the word "nigger" in a class on black culture in the usa, a retired mcgill professor for having defended western values, a another at concordia for showing a film about pierre vallières; they burnt tintins and lucky lukes and have just canceled an invitation to lawyer mary henein, a canadian criminal lawyer who brilliantly defended jian gomeshi accused of sexual assault, to address a group of young girls. caught on all sides by multiculturalism, the education environment among the anglo-saxons is fertile ground for the wokes.
especially after the adventures of tintin and asterix in ontario, i understand the figaro, current values (and we bet mathieu bock côté within 48 hours) to jump in there with both feet, but come on, it's an anecdote.
this year, with the comic book fireworks and that, canada is considered a lunatic asylum. the whole world laughs at us.
bin doesn't ...
> this is to forget that the young iraqi 28-year-old was, for three months, the sexual slavery of no less than 13 daesh soldiers in 2014, before she managed to flee to germany.
phew, there's a lack of editors at le figaro.
at school, i was often offended by my teachers, but to my knowledge, they all managed to retire without being censored.
it reminds me of safia nolin who sees grossophobia in all ...
since when do students have power over their schools? it is the students who should be afraid of the reaction of their schools and not the other way around. would a little discipline be too much to ask?
do we have a quebec or at least canadian source for that? because i do not believe that the figaro is a reference for this kind of stuff.
someone published a table that compared the expressions of france and quebec. in the france column, there was only the expression "du coup" in all the rows. the painting was featured in a tv show in france.
i didn't expect it to explode.
the cashier at jean coutu had hurt me because she was in pain and it showed.
bullshitqc has stolen and somewhat changed my history of neighborhood rules of houses.
edit; i sent them a message when i saw their post to say that i was the op and that they had distorted the message. never got a response. fuck bullshitqc.
otherwise, quite certain that olivier niquet or his researchers are here to see some stories in the reported sub
reddit is an open buffet for productions lacking ideas. to be a researcher, i would happily dig in here too.
the pig's foot salary affair? personally, i saw a good 24 hours here before hearing about it in the media.
however, they are not taking my communist shitposts for some unknown reason.
reddit for the media is the equivalent of wikipedia for my school work a few years ago
yesterday on the world time show at ici première, we dealt with the phenomenon in the united states of employees who quit their jobs en masse because of poor working conditions and wages. an industrial relations specialist was invited and one of the causes according to him was the use of the hashtag #quitmyjob while my partner and i patiently waited for mention to be made of the r / antiwork subreddit, where the world has been gathering for many years. years to talk about their job and announce their departure, among other things. we never talked about it, to our surprise.
le sac de chips and small sites like that often take their articles from r / quebec.
all the weird homes for sale that people find here are always found on sac de chips or c'est normal au québec the next day, it always makes me smile.
hello researchers!
here is the segment: 
we go on strike and we don't post anything for 1 week! take that researchers!
wow bravo u / popop213!
what i do not understand is why the union does not take the leap? in times of manpower shortage, i don't think employers are too keen on standing up publicly to impose unnecessarily harsh working conditions. otherwise popop213 can go all the way and create a petition to get media attention. seriously it's time for this to end
the infoman researchers are among us.
i have apparently already been quoted a few times in certain media such as the bbc. i'm still surprised to see that.
mcsween often talks about reddit in the context of meme-stocks.
someone told me that he was 99% sure that mario dumont was reading airquebec because he often talked about subject / expression / stuff that had been on reddit the same day or the day before.
(it's not proven, just tell someone)
i heard esther (?) helene (?) i don't know the name anymore, mentioned reddit. she also does it from facebook, the idea is to take the pulse on what drives people at the moment!
i find it good!
yes, i think i understood when legault accused the platform managers, i felt targeted, as a community.
a quebec radio host often writes columns that are just a translation of r / askreddit
i don't often listen to the radio, but it marked me.
i'm a bit late in the conversation, but i'm pretty sure gabriel nadeau-dubois is a semi-regular user. he once shared a screenshot of a publication if memory serves.
john deere sat on my.
i'm so okay with it all.
if he's not a complicated guy, he might have to rethink the brand of tractor he wants, otherwise he won't be able to rocket thrusters.
as long as his john deere doesn't break it should be okay. as soon as something goes wrong, essential to the tractor or not, it will have to pay dearly to have it repaired by john deere. no right to repair or modify his beautiful tractor himself. unless he learns to hack it.
[farmers seeking 'right to repair' rules to fix their own tractors gain white house ally](
 [farmers across america are suing for the right to repair their john deere tractors](
[farmers are hacking their tractors because of a repair ban
](
nice the sun harmonica solo.
it's strange and i like it.
- mom !! i saw an airplane!
- but no darling, we must say plane!
- mom! i had seen an airplane!
i think of you and worse, la lala la?
"do you have the right to repair your tractor?"
"ask john, you go to deere"
the trick is to buy an old john deere that has no electronics.
ouin fuck john deere
sitting on my trac-moé i think about you
tasson on my track, i always think of
i have a boner for the anti-work sub. i am someone who has never been unemployed, worse who has no intention of quitting the job ... but i am really glad that workers' rights are once again a hot topic.
my guy turned 12 last week, this morning he got his first dose. i am quite proud and happy! and soon the turn of my 8-year-old baby! we can't wait to move on!
i don't know if it's the change of time and season that has this effect on me, but i found the last two weeks to be completely interminable. i am also quite mixed up in my days, which is unusual.
it's going to be obvious for the skinny ones here, but it seems that the more i lose weight, the easier it is not to regain the lost weight, and the easier it is to lose weight even more. i eat less, i lose weight, i have less appetite, i eat less. it's easier to move and exercise, i move more, i lose more weight, it becomes even easier to move, i move more. i lose the taste of coke, i drink less, i lose the taste even more. and i dare not say all the mental health benefits of this whole cycle, even though november is tough on the body.
anyway, some good news for the weekend. it feels good not to be officially 'obese' anymore.
one week in the new job and it's so nice! : d
- i want a permanent ban!
- [give a permanent ban]
- why am i banned! what rule have i broken! [shit about insults that amply justify a ban]
it's not even a case that just happens once. what does this world expect?
can we use the covid tests from free quebec clinics to return from the us to canada? and are these pcr tests? i would have to make a quick round trip to the tractor supply in champlain, but i prefer not to have to wait until november 30 ideally.
with the release of bf2042 i fell very nostalgic for the old battlefield games which were much more fun and strategic. i found bf2142 reclamation which is a project that host their own private servers for bf2142.
it's really fun despite the fact that there are not a lot of players. it's really how i remember with the same kinks and bugs.
it's such a shame because if it weren't for the defunct gamespy and the defunct ea master server that recorded your account and your progress, it would be really easy for anyone to just host a server. on the preservation side, it's null. luckily, people have reverse engineered and paid servers.
if you have bf2142 on origins i advise you to join the reclamation community;)
i understand you. it's candy like sub.
i do not understand those who shout that young people are lazy and do not want to work. i'm so happy that young people don't have to endure the hardship i experienced when i started on the job market: psychological harassment, hostile environments, not just insufficient training sometimes completely absent, no vacation ever. summer or weekend off otherwise you lose your job, work on christmas night to serve the 3 tatas who will travel for a transaction of $ 10, too many hours to be able to combine work and studies even if you requested max 15 per week.
i just discovered this sub two weeks ago i would like to help so much in the fight to have good working condition
similarly
me too. i've never been on unemployment and i have a really good career now, but i have a really big justice boner because i want people to get organized and things to improve.
when i was a student the number of times i was told by my relatives "it's just a student job" when my boss pissed me off or broke the law. for many people, "student jobs" will do this their whole life.
prof here. thank you, ostie, thank you. for my children, my wife, and me.
my two children are going to be old enough to have the vaccine, i can't wait ... i must have lost 30-40 days of work since the start of the pandemic because of the runny noses and the little ones normal bin cough ...
let's say seeing the sun go down at 4 in the evening was a bit tough on morale.
the same. since monday i think it's friday. you have to believe that i was right once in 5
i'm so tired and have no fun living right now, the weather is bland and sad, i can't wait for the snow to stay so that there is some semblance of a reflection of light
what is your man thing? i have always been slim but i gained like 50 lbs during the pandemic which i am not able to lose! probably he has a little depression behind that but criss i'm hungry! i always thought it was easy to lose weight but fuck, i have so much more respect for successful people ...
i've never experienced this (can't brag about it, i just have a metabolism as well), but i want to congratulate you! it's easy to judge others when you don't see the situation, and a lot of people put a lot of effort into it that doesn't work. you seem to have reached the turning point where your work starts paying off and making the rest of the work easier, it's hardly work anymore. hope you are feeling as good as your comment suggests!
be careful not to disappear!
perfect
it would be nice if a lot of restaurants would do business with the same left-luggage company and you could take it to any location.
very cool
it's an improvement on reusable plastic that we still throw in the trash, but it's rather annoying as a matter, isn't it?
if i am ordering to take out it is because i am not a traveling person, so i will never be in a situation where i want or can bring the glass or metal containers.
then i have nothing to do with the containers, i don't want others and i have no room for them.
suddenly, it's just bulky and more expensive and that would push me not to order from restaurants that do that.
don't tell me i'm the only one who thinks like that?
i prefer that he arrives at my place with the order, unloads the food and leaves immediately with its container.
it remains to be seen whether it is better than the neighborhood grocery store which refuses cans every other time.
super. 
in addition, it should help to retain part of its customers.
like la tasse in montreal like?
in any case the super quality uses a deposit on their indian metal containers
part la business!!
what if it becomes government? planetary? for all products?
i was going to suggest a company name "u-eat" (in reference to u-haul which works on this principle) but it already exists.
isn't that what they're talking about in the article, with "retournzy"?
it is sure that it must be practical. but at the same time, you have to do your part a minimum and swarm your ass a little to save the human race, no
seriously. i can't understand why we accept this. full machine not emptied or which does not work. it's disheartening even for a motivated person
we would have much less plastic problem in the ocean but i imagine that it will use more water but that would not be a problem in canada.
u-reheat.
as consumers, the percentage of our impact is much smaller than that of companies and industries. as long as they don't get their asses up, pollution and warming will continue.
> as consumers, the percentage of our impact is much smaller than that of companies and industries. as long as they don't get their asses up, pollution and warming will continue.
they won't change until the market changes and the market is us as a group. the apquebots which pollute, its going to decrease when we stop importing so much. cruise ships will stop when the world will stop buying them. there is no industry that runs "for nothing".
"a boat, can we leave that in the yard ...?"
background, in my family have a pontoon and this year the storage prices have gone up 4-5x and in some cases no free space, so it's no surprise that someone in the wrong has crashed that on their land this year.
lots of recreational boat sales, but very little storage space to meet new demand.
at the little bariton café we have the skidoo in the courtyard, the pontoon at the entrance and the usher at the door
most municipalities have bylaws prohibiting this kind of storage. it looks stupid too quickly, but i hope that his house will not be burnt down because the pontoon takes up 3/4 of the work space for the sappers.
seems efficient so you don't have to scrape half of your pitch!
what is the group's opinion on the pontoons in the front yard?
y'a l'doua cé son terrin
it's surprising that the municipality tolerates this. contrary to what people seem to think, you can't do whatever you want on your land. there are cities which prohibit tempo shelters because it harms the landscape, i dare not imagine for a bone ... a big pontoon.
maybe the guy is in a bad mood? not finding a warehouse, suddenly no money ...
i say live and let live.
iiiiiissshhh ....
"a pontoon, can we leave that on the porch?"
if i buy a house and put what i want on my land, i hope that one of my neighbors will take a photo to put it on the internet ...
criss of beautiful sight
i lived in places where people were fighting in the middle of the street in front of our house at 3 a.m. and i had neighbors who had about 15 tanks on their land because they were mechanics pi i never complained.
a boat on his land is nothing. let the world live.
who gives a fuck sérieux?
add a couple of garlands and some christmas lights and a weird christmas tree.
i would give it a penalty for boasting.
at least if there's a flood he's ready
but, that's a big no for me!
look at the frames leaning on them. i think you are misinterpreting the image, it's just oil change day.
criss that it's a village like post ...
and to think that people here are offended by the numbers.
me, i still like to see the daily numbers, if you don't like yourself, downvote and carry on with your life.
the numbers, mason! what do they want to tell us ??
 /s
(the numbers, mason! what do they mean?)
the number of cases of covid-19 in central and eastern europe is really worrying. do you think it's only a matter of time before it happens in quebec?
do we keep statistics on vaccinated vs unvaccinated hospitalizations?
[deleted]
720 new cases! we must find a culprit: the unvaccinated!
[deleted]
fixation on sickly figures.
there are those who believe that just because we look at the numbers, it makes us paranoid stuck in our basements panicking about the end of the world.
look, this is reddit, if we took out everything that is non-essential there wouldn't be much left there.
[deleted]
i have a math textbook by a dude named mason, so your comment has a funny double meaning to me.
no. we are more vaccinated in quebec than in europe.
according to this source 
it is much the same as on the same date last year, if you consider the number of cases.
i still remember when the sub said that was conspi to say that people would just think of the case in 6 months
well we are there, and it is the case.
13 unvaccinated, 7 vaccinated.
strawman
no need to find a capable lol, that's a fact. 66% of cases are unvaccinated
they do indeed bear a large share of the blame. look at the numbers: 
as long as the post receives positive upvotes, more people are happy to see it than not.
you can go create your own sub like "r / quebecpasdecovid" and post whatever you want.
one of the dozen voice actors available to cover 40,000+ actors?
[list of actors who dubbed bruce willis] (
thiery dubé, the new homer simpson
do you mean yves corbeil?
it's jean luc montminy my favorite
thank you. it must be said that things get complicated with vvs, they do a lot of dubbing their direct-to-dvd in barcelona or elsewhere in europe and sell it as vq in quebec. i couldn't even tell if it's quebecers we hear in race against death (i don't know dubé's voice very well)
yves corbeil for the man over 40 and manuel tadros for the villain.
who [unfortunately left us in august] (
the same. he was a great voice actor.
i am really ambivalent about this story. i would love to see and hear these songs performed by current and local artists. also, what does he think he is doing with his tunes there, which have been sleeping in a computer for years.
at the same time, if it's really his songs, he still owns them ...
the dumpling imagines having to explain that to your boss.
"yeh boss, i haven't done my research .. the $ 100,000 budget? yeah no, it's spent ''
well, if it's his tunes, it's actually not correct to make a tribute to dédé as if they came from him. it doesn't matter what he does with it.
> it is really the family who gave us the rights.
they gave up rights that they did not have ...
> as proof, he lists the history of these allegedly “unpublished” songs that he has already published in the past under other titles. “the year 2000 is the song on advance and back on the album i saw. […] to die for, it's the song chanter danser on kaleidoscope's first album. […] in life, it is the internet song of misfortune ”. the latter was also the subject of a video clip available on the first page of the website of guy lapointe's group.
i heard he recorded some of the songs, he performed them live and he even recorded some on socan. they don't just sleep in a computer ...
dédé fortin's brother escaped the solid puck on this file.
he saw pages of texts in a drawer and immediately assumed it was his brother's texts, without checking.
> the puck
take your upvote
he scored a goal.
there on the other hand, if there is a demonstration, i will be there. in spite of the fact that the demonstration is organized by conspirators, it is unjustifiable not to lift the state of emergency.
> mr. legault made no reference to the opposition, which has been calling for weeks for the lifting of the state of emergency to be able to debate these decisions democratically. he also did not invoke the experts in rights and freedoms who are also wondering about the need to maintain this state of emergency, but he could not help but attack the unions: “the unions don't like it. it's like the world upside down. there are unions that are suing us for giving bonuses. i've never seen this before. "
surprise, surprise.
let me guess, like 3-4 months before the election campaign
very democratic all that.
and quebecers, soft, readily accept.
basically, what will the end of the state of emergency change?
" it's coming ; early 2022 ”, he then dropped.
remindme! 105 days "so what?"
can françois legault theoretically keep the state of emergency forever? time for discussion
absolute power corrupts absolutely.
lift the state of emergency, sure, sure.
but when do we get rid of the passport?
it's been a good 6 months since he announced this, right?
okay, so, from the mouth of the pm himself, the state of emergency in place to fight against "a terrible global pandemic", we agree on that, is now there to allow the payment of bonuses in a sector, certainly critical, which has manpower difficulties.
should you laugh or cry?
at the stage where we are, at the end of 2021 vs covid, the state of emergency should be maintained, only with the agreement of the entire national assembly ... there is really no more urgency at this point. point, unknown at this point, for a simple one-sided decision by one person to keep it all in place. we are really, but really could there.
scandalous.
stakoze that ...
i'm weird, but i like to wear the mask. but hey, i put on a (symbolic) mask every time i went out before so now it's just physical.
francois legault will not lift the state of emergency. ***
in short, when young people are going to be vaccinated.
it's ridiculous. young children cannot even have severe symptoms of covid.
it is useless, we will close everything when the next wave arrives as in europe.
large vaccinated and unvaccinated will fill the hospitals once again
the old ones a little
and voila it's death, and we will blame the unvaccinated 15% under 12 years old.
the state of emergency they use it especially to settle collective agreements ... not surprising ...
they have to make reports on all expenses and contracts at the end of the state of emergency ... they will timer that so that the reports come out right after being elected.
especially since the suspension of democratic powers is designed to be, as the word says, an * emergency * measure. gold,
> while visiting the bell center on thursday, ** for an announcement concerning the development of hockey in quebec **, the prime minister remained firm: a state of health emergency is still necessary to make certain decisions.
i am all for the development of sport, but when the prime minister has reached the point of making announcements on hockey, i have a hard time believing that we are still in * emergency *. sufficient urgency to have the right to suspend democracy and rule by decree and by mutual agreement without accountability, it is better to say **! emergency! ** roughly critical red. looking at the behavior of the prime minister himself, we are a long way from that.
> at the rate things are going, even if the immunization campaign for 5 to 11 year olds begins shortly, children cannot be fully immunized for the holiday season.
recommendation of 8 weeks between doses, then 2 weeks after the 2nd dose to be considered adequately protected. if a child receives their 1st dose on monday, the earliest to be adequately immunized is in early february.