"i have you"
gang of sheep like an anti vaxx from my job.
what makes me laugh is the people who said: we want chloroquine! big pharma censorship !! dr raoult !!!
but now are like: we don't want the vaccine! not tested enough !! we don't know enough yet !!!
yet precisely, the study of dr raoult did not have the best methodology and more studies were necessary to form a legitimate idea.
i would like to congratulate everyone on the efficiency of the vaccination center today. i was so proud.
urghhh well, the time has come to get me downvoted, but here is my opinion:
1. not everyone who does not want to be vaccinated yet is an anti-vax (as it is written on the t-shirt of the man). they find that the vaccine can bring risks that have indeed been documented (eg: anaphylactic shock, thrombosis).
2. the virus is not that fatal, so these people perceive their risk to be higher if they decide to be vaccinated.
3. we have a good idea of the long-term effects of vaccines, but we cannot be sure since we have not had the chance to study the possible effects after several years.
4. if a large enough portion of the population is vaccinated, the guy who did not want it does not have as much of an effect as it does in the picture. so he's a guy who would refuse to help put out the fire in my opinion and not someone who actively blocks the efforts of others. if you get vaccinated, the fact that the other is not should not change your immunization.
5. i see a lot of people with valid and well-justified opinions who get downvoted like crazy and get whined afterwards. respect the choices of others. my appointment is wednesday since i decided to get the vaccine, but i'm not going to start yelling at those who don't intend to go.
6. yes, it is their "choice" and even though i disagree with them, i respect it.
in this case, an antivax would scream loudly that there is no fire, that it is in fact a candle and that it does not need water. on the other hand, when he pounded on fire he would cry out for help, ask for immediate care and then activate the governments not to have controlled the flames.
powerful
[deleted]
this thread demonstrates a sad reality about many users of this subreddit.
first, we see a kind of big movement on the fact that it is his choice and therefore he has the right. so yes he has the right to make this choice because it is what the government has to decide, but we have the right to criticize someone for their irresponsible choice based on bad information or a principle of freedom can develop which does not take into account others and people who cannot be vaccinated.
second, there is a big gap in analytical capacity. it is a metaphor that clearly attacks the anti-vax movement and who is right the anti-vax movement has blocked vaccination clinics and attacks people who are going to be vaccinated it is big intimidation that reminds us of the tactics of anti-abortion movements. so yes the anti-vax movement harms vaccination directly and indirectly.
finally, if you are a cellar who feels targeted by this carricature it is well it will be able to make you reflect on your barely reflected principles and push you to make a less stupid choice.
ps i have little respect for people who refuse to be vaccinated. and even less for anti-vaxx and j'ai l'doua!
it's fun when a post becomes popular as well, so normal people who have other things to do than check reddit all day come and destroy the illusions of popularity of anti-vaxx that abound on lesser posts. popular
i flew, it's already on fb. to piss off my anti-tax / conspiratorial / racist colleagues.
holy sacrament. half of the posts come from morons talking about choice.
no, not the criss choice of cellar. it is a global pandemic. it happens roughly every 100 years.
it’s our turn. close your eyes and conform that we are done.
but gang we are in a dictatorship !!!! dictatorship!!!
criss of beautiful dictatorship where you can make irresponsible choices without anyone being able to stop you!
so true!
tokebekicitte
this fat guy in this cartoon is selfish, he got the vaccines but doesn't want the others to have them!
i only speak english so idk what yall are saying, but this is such  an accurate depiction of these types of people!
smix
ah my god, stop there. we have the right to refuse a vaccine, and the simple refusal of an individual will not be to the detriment of the masses.
the idea that 100% of people must receive a vaccine to counter a virus is unscientific. and just wrong.
this is pure fucking totalitarian regime demagoguery.
!remindme 2 days
if those folks just got the vaccine it's unlikely they have the strength to carry a fire hose
oh yeah.....
are stupid that's why
[removed]
you're cellar in estiiiii if it's your choice
funny to see how have given the image that people who do not want to be vaccinated are fat thick on the bs. yet the fda has not yet approved any vaccines these are only emergency use authorizations for the moment, are they too thick to believe that everything is not right for the moment with vaccines? surely not !
so yes for the moment the vaccine is still in beta and the reason why some people are not vaccinated is precisely because they value their health and they consider that the risk of complications or problems of present or future health following the vaccine is greater than the risks associated with covid-19 itself.
it is just common sense to make sure that the product that is supposed to protect us is not more damaging than the virus itself. once again the media and the governments which divides the people as usual, the more it changes the more it is the same.
yes
too bad to see people hairstyle between citizens, who hold the population hostage its steps the covid its the failing health system
funny the same 3.8k of votes out of this 3.8k i can guess that probably half are overweight or overweight. not able to judge that we have to take charge but able to judge which medicine his neighbor should take ... yeah yeah.
excellent visual! (i am from delaware, us and don’t speak french so i’m not sure why reddit suggested this sub. but i did visit montreal, quebec my senior year of high school last century in february and had an amazing time. so loved your city enjoyed this comic)
there is some truth to this image, but the choice of some to want to ridicule others who disagree with them is best represented by the seated man. it blocks a useful and necessary debate.
i think the fire that burns with coronaviruses will repair it because it also works.
no one can write here ...
get vaccinated if you feel like it, and if that doesn't mean much to you, take the plunge. it's not your business case what i'm going to decide, worse i don't care what you think 😅
this is a worldwide panel !! if there is any case that you are not valid !!
ah good? 86% of the world's population is unvaccinated fyi. africa has no confidence in the big white and european pharma ...
seems that if the collective immunity is at 70 ~ 80% as they announced and we are already there, what is the problem ??
the last time i had a vaccine i was so sick for a week that i couldn't go to school. today, i work and have accounts payable. you think i just got this taking a chance on it happening again and i can't work? fuck off.
downvote plzz, ankle boots philosophy
i am far more ok with wearing a mask then taking a experimental vacation
i mean… it is tho ??? (i am provax btw)
tabarnak
tanning that kind of meme here and in the papers. the overwhelming response is to get vaccinated and there is no problem with people who don't want to go.
the problem with these cellar criss [is that they keep happening] (
very quebec specific cartoon lol been reposted on every sub. very unique!
always the fault with ti-jean ...
i am young and healthy, i have no reason to be vaccinated. i know i'm going to be downvoted, but i would ask people to respect my choice.
good stuff! on the other hand, there is a missing tv between the firefighter and the fire in the illustration 🤷
osti that you are in bad faith and generalized everything. it's my choice to spend the rest of my life indoors, i'm not going to go outside for the shot just to be able to get outside, that's stupid.
signalement d’utilisateur: it's promoting hate based on identity or vulnerability
there are legitimate questions about covid vaccines. notably:
1. these vaccines have all had "emergency" / accelerated approval. some people might want to wait until full approval is given.
2. these vaccines use experimental technologies (notably pfizer / moderna) with unknown long-term effects.
moreover, i believe that "i have the dua" is, indeed, a legitimate reason. "no is a complete sentence". whether the government mandates vaccination (by law or, these days, by "public shaming", or possibly possibly by vaccination passport) makes me uncomfortable.
having said that: my date is monday.
it's his choice too ..? so let's see you guys lol.
* sweet blues hug, *
* cuddle of blues, *
* i have to jouse you ... *
call in the bin! 
growing up french in cornwall, it was always cool to see this <<bin> > around town
wasn't it a franco-ontarian who had that company? iirc from the last time it was shared (without the bottom).
caline de bine in romanian also means "good luck".
hello-ho style translation
in the 613, it's probably wanted
ah ben torrieu
man, the original image was printed and displayed on my grandma's fridge when i was younger, like 15 years ago. funny to see her as a meme once an adult, thanks for the blast from the past.
hahahahah
this meme is banned from all good irc rooms of 98-04.
potamogle
good ?
i wake up for my last day of work before the holidays, still a little in the arms of morpheus ... paf! cuddle of bine! my day is off to a good start!
it makes salaberry-de-valleyfield crisscross
as someone from the front page who doesn’t speak french, what does the second thing mean?
it really is. i lived in ottawa (613) for 2 years and saw some. i think that was the joke.
i would eat big bine me in tk 😏
it's always ontarians who take advantage of us: our languages, our kitchens, our holidays ....
(i'm speaking english in a subreddit meant for people that speak french but forget it) this subreddit was reccomended to me although i don't live in quebec. but from one neighbor to another, greetings from ontario!
chui a fool i'm going to say only one 😂
what? we have a quebec reddit !? : o
* coal in the bin * is the origin of this expression i believe
i don't know if i have the sacred right here but if so you all know what i mean
titty bang?
/r/thecatdoesnttalk
i was hoping to see this comment
l'aut soere l'aut soere, i sang the blues
growing up in a cornhole is like growing up in a rotten egg 😂
my best friend grew up in cornwall too! i’ll have to ask her if she knows about this haha
make sense, 613 is an ottawa area code. the pun is too perfect for the person to be originally franco-ontarian or quebecer haha!
yes, and when i spoke to him he confirmed to me that the name had been deliberately chosen to appeal to both ontario and quebec.
awesome marketing either way.!
bean
plains represent
it's a modified exclamation of astonishment, dissappointment, or enthusiasm. kinda like saying "gosh darn it" instead of "god damn it".
in quebec, it's common to use elements of the church as curse words, but simultaneously taboo to use elements of the church as curse words.
in this case, instead of saying "calise", the cup that communion is served out of, "caline" is used instead. 
the word "bine" is added just because it rhymes. bine in quebec is what we call baked beans.
so, in literal sense, "a communion cup of baked beans".
decriss 😂
what?
shots fired
hahaha is good!
am from cornwall, can confirm, had many a chuckle about it.
613 is for eastern ontario: cornwall, hawkesbury, alexandria, etc. too.
mr, to you.
thank you very much!
in cornhole?
my favorite is livraison de colis(se) on all the trucks.
i may speak english, mais je french tres bien.
😂
french (traditional)
french (creamy)
french (traditional) and french (parisian)
you're going to frustrate a lot more with this.
i am a french passing by chance and i am absolutely spoiled
post this on / r / rance.
it's funny because it's true.
[héhéhéhéhé](
your flag is still nice.
we are not going to hide the fact that the french would say "what is that" when we say "kesséça".
and as long as we're on the subject of contractions, i think it's hard to beat our famous "i'm going to ..." and "once ..." which become "m'a te", respectively. . "and" m'ein que ... "
(ex: told me that to me that i'm coming, big one)
no kidding, there really is this dichotomy in choosing mandarin between taiwan (traditional) and china (simplified).
french (tabarnak)
french (damn)
[bonne version](
we are so far ahead that we speak verlan backwards.
no mention of "chocolatine" or "pain au chocolat"?
no problem
i heard the same kind of thought from an american 'from the south' and a spaniard who said that he had to support in addition the spanish 'legacy' ('support', in the it sense of term, it was a meeting of geeks ...)
i found him funny.
same fight !
i didn't know that shitting on the subjunctive and killing 50% of past participles chords was considered traditional french!
fuck yourself.
but it's funny because it's kinda true
if we put aside the differences in vocabulary and certain turns of phrase, there is not much difference between the two. apart phonetically, but even there it is difficult to compare, there is a myriad of different regional accents in france, besides the berrichon accent (where i come more or less) surprisingly resembles the québécois.
i did not come here to suffer: '(
blah, queb is a lot more simplified if you want my opinion.
for example, you can say the word "pogner" to mean like 30 different cases ... there's no such thing in regular fr.
i have never been so offended by an opinion that i agree with 100%
we'll see what happens to me, i posted this on a french server.
french (counted)
*inserts swiss numbers*
i will not accept this
ah well la la i am very angry!
shots fired
i have well well well well breathed my nose thank you
i admit that it exhilarates me a little.
frankly it is deserved. you defend the french language better than we do.
françois (qc) vs français (fr)
fetcher the cow
subscribe
pleasure?
i don’t know what everyone is saying, and at this point i’m too afraid to ask
based.
french passing through here. no actually it's pretty funny. as long as no one takes it seriously (put their finger on the mysterious big red button of the presidential office)
osti that it works !!
it's pocket that i can't upvote more than once!
yooo
in my opinion, it is the other way around. french "modernity" came to a halt at the end of the 19th century. 😌
as proof, i have a french friend who writes ct to say it was because for her there is no difference between è and è.
"you thought that way, but not that"
i'm french and it's just factual
[ch'pas sur d'kossé you want to tell me] (
deserved.
suddenly, it will go badly
i summon my rancid comrades.
to attack
well, we don't all talk like in paris there!
[la belgique be like...](
it takes a space between "language" and the ":".
"traditional french americanized"
i have no idea why a sub predominantly french is being recommended to me.
 i have no idea what is going on.
what sets me off my race is when the french say a cake for a cookie or fucking cookie.
what do you call it a cake sacrafâsse? a cake ?!
totally agree 👍🏻 being from france, i can only agree with this, tabarnak! i miss real french…. here, it's getting worse and worse ... and let's not talk about the spelling 😱
absolutely stunning.
a solid representation of the discoveries of recent weeks, magnificent in its minimalism.
quebec has also had its share
anyone game to post this on r / canada? i am not a subscriber so i cannot post ...
[banned]( from r/montreal for sharing this picture. apparently that sub has a different opinion on the subject.
as a native dude, that's pretty fucking heavy.
phew perfect
the symbolism is strong, but i find the image very disturbing.
happy moving day!
thats a powerful image
very well done. a haunting image
a good representation of canada
what about germany? /s
r/canadianforces would like this!
damn
6 schools out of 139. we haven't finished finding graves.
fuck le canada live le québec libre
hidden a bloody past, a lot of countries have already done that. some whose history is known to the rest of the world, others who are still hidden, but today it is canada's turn to find out. as painful as it may be for us canadians to admit that the country's history is tarnished in the blood of the natives. as for germany was a time, it is up to us to recompose ourselves with ourselves. so did i speak.
me, i like the union that canada is now, and i find that its government is good, but i respect your opinion, and i would just like to understand that it is the news that causes this drawing ?
thank you!
edit: i got my answer, thanks
where was the quebec version on the 24th? we are just as guilty.
if you downvote, you are part of the problem and not the solution. quebec is not perfect.
saint john too
me who still thought until the last weeks of canada that its history is one of the worst steps ...
hello,
first, to say that i did not follow this news in detail then i am missing some tips.
now, there are those bones. this can be worrying, that's for sure.
i have some questions :
1- do we know if these children were deliberately killed (by direct violence, like murder, or indirectly like malnutrition)?
2- do we know the age of these bones? i mean not there since when have they been there?
3- are there any writings on these ... cemeteries (so-and-so, deceased such-and-such a date, etc.)?
thank you
big oof
i don't speak better but, very well my boyfriend!
oof
if the month were june and the flag was rainbow, anything like this would be deemed hate speech. leave the cross out of it.
this is so tragic. i love it so much.
lol, finding graves in a graveyard, wow.
there hasn't been an investigation yet: people have decided to "guess" what these findings are. infant mortality was common at the time.
but hey, saying catho = bad is really hot on the left, so you don't even need to investigate!
do you realize that without the church quebec would probably not exist? i understand that the emotion is strong but we must take a step back and not fall into the denigration of an institution that saved french canada.
edit: as usual the downvotes prove that this sub is filled with french canadian nicknames always quick to spit on their history.
i will not blame canada for what the catholic church did.
i want to know, which country has an angelic past?
i ♥ ️ canada
#happy dominion day!
[deleted]
[deleted]
wait let it be i just noticed the corpses in the ground
go separate then. fuck you and fuck quebec. fuck christianity especially. they were children...
shit this sub hates his country a lot more than i thought ... we live in one of the best countries in the world and in the history of mankind and we don't have enough perspective to recognize it. frankly it's sad.
“discoveries”
it is not a discovery, we already knew that it is happening in these institutions; were just able to hide it
the most recent ekos poll shows that quebecers are 86% ashamed while canada as a whole is at 80% ( where is the problem? the image of a canadian flag, according to the last i heard, is a symbol that is supposed to unite everyone. unless you think that a canadian flag is not a symbol to encompass quebec?
nobody said otherwise
quebec was also the most oppressed place in canada and the first to meaningfully throw off the shackles of the church.
troc is just catching up to quebec, again, as usual. you can't teach them anything.
the natives come under federal jurisdiction, the quebec authorities have nothing to do with it.
quebec in the federative state of canada has indeed had its share.
that's why i want to get rid of being dunce centralizer to have my country where we can get rid of these contradictions.
did it
check out r / canada, they have a large majority who are aware of the situation.
it’s on r/canada i don’t know why r/montreal would ban you for it
banned for life or for few weeks?
i got banned from r/catholic for mentioning this topic on a post about catholic churches being burned in canada.
permabanned.  for all their repent for forgiveness preaching a permaban seems funny lol
"i have an astronaut training" 😭
imagine forming a group called the farfadas and take you seriously.
nantel is a lot less easy to intimidate than a cashier at maxi ...
and we won't be able this time to accuse him of lacking transparency towards the people who are interviewed ....
unbelievable the junk hells angels who intimidate nantel. it is pathetic.
never let yourself be intimidated by bullies. i don't like nantel, but he stood up to them. so much so that it is nantel at the end who throws a "give me some space" in front of a dumbfounded imbecile. it's good to see.
"what is a virus - it is a human being - we are all viruses"
sabriboire, i spit out my coffee ... hahahahaha
edit: ha ok, this is the same one who has "astronaut training" .... nasty donut lol
who do they think they are the hells angels version wish? kossé that, end of life?
i would never understand how the morons who try to silence guy nantel and make him leave the place do not see the contradiction compared to what they are claiming ...
john lenin!
castro? madeleine islands tabarnak
-chad nantel
-virgin farfada wannabe hells bs
it shows that these people are more anti authority than antivax as such. they are not limited to vaccines. it's vaccines, 9/11, the lunar plot, jfk, chemtrails, etc ...
i have an astronaut training
(x) doubt!!!
damn i forgot to put a tarp over my vegetable garden to protect it from chemtrails !!!
it's still special. one would have thought that these people certainly know trump, he has long relayed comments that minimize covid, and yet the lady in red has just forgotten trump about her existence?
and the man who says he has an astronaut training lol yeah right, considering that typical astronauts are like engineers, doctors, physicists, even all 3 at the same time
esti the cellars! worse this world we have the right to vote like you and me. tbk an 8 year old child is more lit than that.
how many years are there in a century?
- 1000
ok, 1000, pi what century are we in right now?
- 22e.
calvasse.
i accidentally found myself in this demo while doing a big bike ride. i was flirtatious about not having my mask with me and was trying to hold my breath lol.
to be honest, you say he just picked "the worst", but my feeling for being there was that he was spoiled for choice and it shouldn't have been difficult. ..
wow, massive respect to guy nantel for standing his ground
"well from what i read ...."
“chu an engineer… i have an astronaut training! "
he thought to himself that for the camera he could improve his usual lie, from engineer to astronaut
ezpz
once upon a time, in the year 22,021 in quebec, the prime minister of quebec, justin trudeau, declared the status of person for all viruses, regardless of their country of origin ...
there is an ocean between quebec and france, and yet they are just as stupid on one side as on the other
anyway, the black guy looks pretty smath!
"the indian variant comes from which country?"
"from china!"
i have pain in my quebec
the part with the patches, lmfao
i don't really like guy nantel but i'm sorry he became self aware and realizes that his vox pops were just collections of the worst answers.
edit: well i think i haven't seen enough of his vox pops
we like to laugh at americans ...
it's been my day .. thank you! 🤦🏻‍♂️🤦🏻‍♂️🤦🏻‍♂️🤦🏻‍♂️
what i find most interesting is the fact that everyone in the vid would rather given an answer instead of just admitting that it wasn't.
it can be the editing but seems to me that wanting to seem knowing whatever the reality is a common theme among antivax
"a por robel news" lol ok
this ... this is gold. in addition to saying that he is going to laugh at them, it is as if they have completely forgotten this fact.
this video should come with a warning: wear a helmet, you're going to bang your head on the walls.
what this highlights is that they are indeed people who are not very smart and not very knowledgeable. they lack a lot of tools to understand the hyper complex world in which we live. you really have to resist despising them and reaching out to them in a certain way .. or at least finding the right way to talk to them .. if you have any ideas ...
undoubtedly the easiest vox-pop to assemble for guy nantel of all his career, he surely didn't even need to sort the lucid people of the cellars too much; they were all caves and brainwashers.
chem-trails.
i really feel bad for the poor lady in the red sweater.
hey bo-boy ... there is a lack of money in education!
castro - islands of the madeleine
they are the "deplorable" ones that our performance society has left in the ditch. basically it's a bit like complaining about being burgled all the time if you're a billionaire living in a mansion in the middle of a slum.
we just harvest our collective neglect in the face of public education and a community life capable of socializing people and the world. result: they "educate" themselves or not all, they socialize in parallel, as would the destitute of the (not so) hypothetical shanty town mentioned above by living off crime.
robbery a billionaire when you die, is you a crime? not believing the elites when they left you in the ditch and allying with your peers, isn't that normal?
for our part, laughing in collusion with nantel, we just say phew, lucky that i fell on the right side. as long as we treat the "deplorable" as an alterity to comfort us, they will piss us off.
it's a pity that nantel is not in the pq chiefdom. he really woke up in esti and cursed that i think he has a good demeanor and good speaking skills.
yes, we get along, he's putting on a show and he knows that some people have downright stupid answers but he's not condescending against them, i think he understands that in refractory movements of this kind there are people with a level of d 'education rather weak unfortunately ben ginette who thinks that samuel de champlain was a patriot well she is perhaps stupid but she has the heart in a good place all the same.
and then tsé bernard derome is random in sacrament.
i mean even i thought before listening to that that pinochet was argentina and not chile lol. we are often less brilliant than we think.
anyways i find it good that he stood up to the four bs false hells are cringe in tabarnak.
it's funny but it's obvious that they took the most idiotic of the group. it's clear that the vast majority are idiots, but still
all of couillons esti fear in the belly. they look very threatening, but it's buckles! they were scared to death.
tabarnak ...
well done to mr. nantel! it shows to what extent people are not educated or well informed.
it makes me laugh and i'm american 😂
seriously, the black and white rewind, where he puts the pseudo-bikers in their place, i stopped counting how many times i listened to it. respect.
osti i like that he doesn't let himself be walked on by the 'bikers' who try to intimidate him with their leather jackets
the bikers of the real cellar criss who still live aik their mother tbnk who her loser lmao
i have like ... no words.
it's too much for me in the morning
you should crosspost that on r / france, our cousins would be happy to have a popularization.
small important detail: if i understood correctly, the dfv user has posted the status of his positions semi-routinely since their purchase in ~ 2019, he believed in it. it only created organic buzz for gme when it started making serious gains (end of 2020). everyone started to buy gme in + - granny to hope to capitalize them too but also to help him boost his earnings. not sure if they discovered the% shorts before or after the owners of the shorts complained about their situation on social media though.
without the success of dfv, i think all of this would have possibly gone to waste.
ps as long as you are there. i've seen a lot of articles say "redditers have an emotional attachment to gamestop" but the vibe on reddit before that was a lot more "fuck gamestop" than anything else (paltry trade / redemption policy). many articles also seem to say that it is coordinated but it was born 100% organically except that there, it has clearly reached a critical mass and everyone is jumping on the wave to the meme and / or to try to cash in, wsb has been dominating r / all for ~ 1 week. it is clearly a historic moment regardless of the outcome of it all.
and it is certain that the price of the shares is "overvalued". with the abysmal interest rates, it's pretty much one of the only places where you can expect an average 7% annual return with very little effort and capital. until the interest rates go up (god knows when), i think that's the new normal for now.
excellent popularization!
i agree with the bubble.
those with $ gme stocks like me, good luck.
those who don't, do your research and be aware that this is extreme volatility. some will take advantage, some will cry all the tears of their body. i'm not making any recommendations.
for the rest, i strongly encourage you to follow the outcome, it is literally david against goliath. the street against the elite.
best explanation of the shorts i've read, well done. it really requires an excellent spirit of synthesis to explain so clearly and briefly a phenomenon that is deliberately very (too) obscure to laymen and even to initiates.
i think i'll go back to watch the big short, now that i understand the principle better;)
and then there are people who believe in the free market, the invisible hand and other myths lol ...
do you know we're talking about how much money these big funds are going to lose? also after how long do they have to buy the short sells?
[deleted]
do the same with blackberry. they will probably do short squeezes with all the stocks that have been sunk by market manipulation by edge funds.
and then, it seems who want to short rh.
loss porn is pretty impressive on wbs right now. there are some who have deep pockets.
thank you! there is so much interest around the stock market and finance it's last days, i wonder why there isn't a quebec finance sub
super summary! indeed, tomorrow promises many surprises !!
thank you! me and the financial markets, that's two, but your explanation was super clear.
canadian banks did not ban purchases of gme stocks but their servers were rotten and completely inaccessible in the early hours of the morning (what a coincidence). i have an account with rbc investment direct and had errors from 9am to 1pm. it was really stressful.
in any case “power to the people” and good luck to the people who invest in it.
edit: i just found that there are some like gardens that have limit on the number of purchases too.
the real problem with the situation here is that the big guys on wall street are keeping small "hobbyist" investors from making money. they block the purchase on robinhood, they are on tv saying that r / wallstreetbets are idiots, monkeys .....
all because they consider themselves the only ones to use these techniques to make money. as long as the population uses these same techniques, or rather turns them against them, then they panic and cry injustice.
like a little fat guy in the elementary school who hits everyone, but when he hits him he starts to cry, to complain, to cry injustice so that we punish those he intimidated at the start. and will this fat boy change his behavior when the situation is behind him? never.
tl; dr wall street is cartman in south park.
wow thank you! i didn't understand why i was seeing gamestop / wallstreet / stocks references everywhere.
thank you for the 101 course, i will go to bed less silly!
nice initiative. i have a clarification to make.
> a few days before large funds have to return it to their lenders
it is misleading to speak of a date on which a fund should return the stock, when we speak of a fund taking a directional position via a short sale. there is no expiration date; this is determined by [the margin requirements] ( which forces a liquidation when the price goes up too much (which is caused by the fact that people at wsb are buying the stock overwhelmingly).
maybe this is something you thought it was educational to leave out, but it strikes me as even more fundamental than the issue of how little liquidity is in the market when short sellers are forced to liquidate.
the end of your text is well illustrated by the behavior of apple's stock, i think.
despite an announcement of a record last quarter yesterday, the stock fell sharply today. i think this is a sign that people are liquidating their value positions to cover their losing positions (hedge funds) or to buy gme (the folks at wsb who believe this story can continue).
i have the impression that it will be mostly that, what will remain in the future of this story: a big bundle of losers in the short term and a general loss of confidence in the stock market which has disconnected a little from the value. real business, among other things, probably, because of the massive arrival of retail traders (of which i am) in the market ...
as i said elsewhere, without saying that it is the same people or the same ideologies that are at play, i see a parallel between these events and what happened on capitol hill. a mass of people, encouraged by a diffuse force coming from social networks, are launching a movement to destabilize the institutions. and, as on capitol hill, the elites are in danger of escaping, confidence in institutions may be damaged and many people may individually bear the negative consequences of this whole story.
edit: your summary is excellent.
i'm a bit bad at finance, and i was wondering: is all this going to have an impact on the gamestop company? or well as long as their action does not go down more than it was before, they will continue their business as usual?
eli5: fuck the shorts who manipulate the market
we like the stock
one thing i don't understand is how and why someone can get their stock borrowed. what is the interest for bruno to pass an apple to alice, knowing that the big funds tend to make short sales?
thank you for sharing these explanations !!
excellent explanation!
is there a place where i could invest some money in that?
like do we start with or on the internet? a canadian site?
if funds like melvin that have short positions go bankrupt, what will happen to their redemption?
thanks for the explanation, it was a pleasant read, although i understood what was going on.
it turns out that i deal regularly with a former finance minister (in fact, i even spoke to him today), whom i know a little bit because he is a friend of my parents.
about two years ago, when i met him at his home, after i had finished my business with him, i told him about the people who were "shorting" tesla, while the title was still climbing in value.
the first thing he said was "oh, it's not correct, that to shorter" ...
regarding the decision of some platforms to no longer allow the purchase of gamestop shares, i would like to add this: it is possible that this decision was motivated by bad reasons (ie influenced by the pro investors who shorted gamestop) but it at the same time is possible that by doing so they are doing something which is in fact beneficial to small investors.
indeed, we know how this kind of scenario ends if we let it go to the end: of course the funds will drink the broth, but also many small investors who wanted to jump on the train at the top of the curve and will end up with the actions at the time of the inevitable fallout of the souffle.
honestly, if i were the manager of a free online broker, which attracts a lot of small investors who are not necessarily very financially literate, it is not impossible that i would decide, for the protection of my clients, not to allow them to buy a stock in this type of scenario when things have clearly gone wrong. it's up to them to go to another platform, that's not what is missing. even apart from a desire to protect my customers, i might make the same decision to protect my reputation which is in danger of being seriously damaged when the shit dumpster explodes.
anyway, i can't say what robinhood's motivation is, but even if it's darker than that, which seems likely, it's not impossible that they accidentally do something good for their clients.
last point: it also seems certain that the rise in gamestop stock is not due to small investors, but rather very large funds (i've heard of blackrock) who have decided to take advantage of the opportunity. a commentator elsewhere on reddit, who seemed knowledgeable, summed it up as follows: a few midsize funds have shorted gamestop and are in fact being killed by big funds, and private investors have taken the opportunity. , which is great, but at the end of the story, in the battlefield, there will be the bodies of some funds and also the bodies of many small investors.
very interesting and i take the liberty of highlighting the fact that you wrote americans and not americans, i greatly appreciate it. rare are those with so much wisdom.
thank you for this popularization and summary!
thank you i understand much better what is happening thanks to you
this is the best explanation i have found so far, thank you !!
i read that the funds had shorted 130-150% of the available stocks. you mentioned that the information about it is public and easily available, could you give me a link? by doing research i find a lot of opinions and often not compatible versions.
> it is a very risky practice, a little controversial, but completely legal, which allows you to make money when others will lose it.
it is a practice that makes it possible to have a healthy market. in a market without short-selling, the market is much more inefficient. for example, when short-selling was banned during the financial crisis, many problems arose (market liquidity, inaccurate prices, etc.).
> already, a few large funds have gone bankrupt. several others panicked. some share buying and buying platforms, including robinhood, a platform popular among young people for its promise to make trading on the stock market accessible to all, have made it impossible for their users to buy other shares. from gamestop (but still allow it to be sold). they are probably doing this to get their users to sell their gamestop shares and lower the price, to help the big funds - many of which are robinhood business partners - to buy them at lower prices to meet the big fund obligations. and thus they avoid bankruptcy.
if i understood correctly from the comment of the platforms, they do not prevent users from buying, but they force them to close their position. in most cases, since these are purchases, the person sells their stock to close their position. that said, on the other side, someone who "shorts" the stock must do the opposite of buying a stock to close their position. and the reason behind seems to be an increase in collateral demanded by the clearing house, the intermediary between a buyer and a seller, for certain stocks, such as gme, amc, koss, etc. given the sudden volatility in the price of these stocks, robinhood had to borrow money today from the big banks (eg jp morgan) to continue their activity. without the collateral in question, no transaction can take place.
> there is therefore an important element of class struggle to what is happening. on the one hand, a small number of large multi-billion dollar investment funds that engage in risky speculation for profit, and on the other, a large number of small amateur investors who feel neglected by the financial system and who found an exploitable weakness in the questionable big fund practices.
to be taken with a caveat. we are not sure who is on whose side. it is very possible that traders within the institutions themselves decide to take advantage of this, either to buy the shares to resell them to the more naive who are caught up with the losses. in this affair of "class struggle", we must not forget an important element: any holder of the share has a financial interest so that the price of the share goes up while he holds it, and would lose a lot. money if the price returns to normal.
> us politicians from both major parties - and even extremes of both major parties - together call for platforms like robinhood to re-open their platforms and stop manipulating the markets, and appeal to the state stock market regulator -one - the sec - to intervene to end the volatility.
intervention to end the volatility would affect the current owners of the stocks - the world on wsb and those who have embarked on the hype. those who bought options will also see the value of those options plummet. in short, there would be big dissatisfied in the majority of the current small players.
> impossible, for the moment, to know if the small investors or the big players will emerge victorious
it is clear that small investors will come out the losers and other winners, which will also be the case with the big players. in a short squeeze, the first to leave the boat will make money on the last to leave it.
thank you for this great summary.
as long as we are on the subject. go watch the movie ** the big short ** to learn a bit about short selling.
i read that if dogecoin hits $ 1, legault will lift the curfew on february 9th.
oh wow thank you !!! 🙏 i understand the situation much better this way !!
thank you very much for this explanation.
thanks for the clear explanation! i was trying to explain the situation to my ajd colleagues, i will definitely use your apple example to popularize it next time.
[deleted]
this is the best explanation i have seen so far!
for me, the stock market is not something that i understand intuitively, but your popularization finally allowed me to understand the situation, thank you!
thank you!!
i saw an analysis showing that, on the buyers' side, there would in reality be overwhelmingly other large funds.
but let's not forget that the big fund is also the money of everyone who invests in active funds.
thanks for this very long post explaining what's happening with gamestop and wallstreetbets; i recently looked for french classes from qúebec that i can take online so this is a very interesting post that i look forward into translating, and then re-translating once my french is better to compare how i understood it with my different language levels.
sorry for the english post and i look forward to soon posting here in french too and understanding how the hell wall street works both in english and french!
there is also papa musk who spoke out and welcomed the initiative, tesla is in a way also a victim of this game of shorts sell by the hedge funds, he had already spoken against well before the gme coup, d 'after my limited understanding the hedge funds by this shortage game can ruin declining companies by sheer damage and this resentment is in the midst of today's movement, many investor retails saw their families suffer during the 2008 crisis
a detail not to be overlooked
we often forget that the company owns a good part of its shares and can sell some to finance projects.
a short sell prevents a company from restructuring when it is in a difficult situation.
in the case of gamestop it is willfully forcing bankruptcy and laying off thousands of people for personal gain.
faque ouin ... in a pandemic there are people who will voluntarily bleed businesses in difficulty to make a profit.
a tool to help you know whether to continue to keep your gamestop stock or not 
thank you for the best explanations i have seen, what i do not understand is that why bruno lends his apple to alice, what does it bring him?
[deleted]
i am a little surprised that a situation like this occurs. say no small investor noticed it, but another hedge fund notices, wouldn't it be a great move to buy all of gamestop's stock like small investors did? or is it that there is usually not enough money available to buy so much?
where does the money lost from "hedge funds" go? is it distributed in the earnings of small investors?
thank you! this is the first time that i fully understand the situation! long, but super clear. :)
question: when restaurants, bars and gyms reopened in june, the world was going out and it was [not worse for 3 months] ( why suddenly, when all the fun places are closed, does it go up? i don't know about you guys, but i had 100 times more interactions between june-september than in october-december.
like the flu, just because it's colder, the virus survives better?
a friend of mine just caught it and she has no idea where it came from. she is fragile and has always been very careful. she has always worked from home, or almost. her boyfriend doesn't have it. it really is everywhere.
"we close restaurants and gyms, but we keep everything else open"
\ * cases keep going up \ *
"we continue to leave costco and supermarkets open questions of having herds of people without any restrictions"
\ * cases keep going up \ *
"good cases continue to move, we're closing all! bravo christmas!"
\*full shutdown\*
govt: opens schools with very few regulations to prevent spread of virus
also the govt: * you must stop seeing your family! you are monsters. think of the children! *
because it's certainly not due to the snowball effect of having waited until the 17th to close the schools and christmas day for the stores, riiiight?
we are very early on the jump to the conclusion here and i know more than one who did not put his nose in a school last season nor his eyes in a shopping center on the 23rd.
in any case, i am very happy that we are closing everything because i dare to hope that the media and creators of the same will find a better pastime than to ignore the full vase to hit on the snack.
ok but what's the curfew report? how does that help? i do chariot rides at 2am i can't?
i don't think it would be possible to do a more complete and comprehensive anthropological analysis of the people of quebec. seriously it's hell xd
at the same time the government abuses it cursedly. they're testing our patience badly by playing with us. i agree with the total lockdown, something we should have done at the start anyway. but the curfew at 8 p.m.? seriously man?
heard the best story at the grocery store today. the cashier tells me: “i've seen all kinds of them during the holidays. there was this elderly couple who were buying a really big turkey. while passing to the cash register, the man naively asks his wife “do you think that we are going to have enough?”, without having thought too much before speaking, to which the madam answers bluntly, a little badly at it. 'ease “bin uh it's okay uh, make us some leftovers!” ". fucking facepalm
the problem is not the mongols who are 15 to be scolded outside a party by the popo and who switch to tva and who think they are victims of a police state, the problem is the petty crimes, the small cheating, which seems to be so prevalent, and about which people are serious hypocrites
the problem is human beings. we send them all to the gulag and there will have been some covid!
and that's exactly how i got it, i wanted to see my girlfriend for the holidays, now i'm paying the price. follow the instructions guys
cases were on the rise long before the holidays. it is obvious that confinement will not work as long as primary schools remain open. children are lichful everywhere and they can put anything in their mouths
right? ciborium that splits me. criss of spoiled babies. i come purple!
haha hahahahaaaa !!! 100% true!
"well, don't go crazy. i can still see my family on christmas day, it's not an evening that will change everything." the number of times i've heard that ... that's what happens when everyone thinks their actions alone don't have great consequences. it makes me laugh at those who do not understand what confinement is.
so well represented 👌🏻
accurate.
finally, i was lucky in my bad luck to have had it at the end of september, when the health system was not too congested as it is now.
for those who currently have it, take care of yourself and quarantine.
i don't agree with comics, covid and restrictions it's not the government's fault, it's more up to individuals. when i see people not respecting the basic rules, i change street corner, i leave the store, i put on latex gloves, wash all the groceries as soon as you enter ... has plenty of ways to protect yourself. we just have to tell ourselves that what we did normally in the past will never come back and continue with a routine worthy of obsessive-compulsive disorder. it happens that some people have caught it anyway, it only indicates that the virus is smarter (especially in the case of mutations) than our measurements and our knowledge about it.
we can overcome it, we will.
i say back to normal life. let nature take its course.
the weak will perish e.
it is a necessary sacrifice for the survival of the economy.
nb it's a joke.
sta kause des pitbull
[deleted]
it looks like a dog in mosuse
in reality, it is the government that puts the baton in our wheels
fak, who takes another 20 seconds to wash their hands?
you're just really autistic to go through this without asking questions
hah thats what happens when the world do the settlers, its gonna be a curfew, its gonna be something to see and experience.
the covid is not going to go away tomorrow morning. you have to learn to live with it. we must stop this torture and reopen everything, being careful. with collective immunity, we will defeat the covid. we do not think either of the mental distress of people and especially of young people. the solution is worse than the problem, we have to wake up.
can we stop the myth that there are lots of people breaking the rules? it is already proving that confinement does not work ...
reminder, 60% of contamination cases come from hospitals and schools
stop with your “quebecois”. just judging by the bye-bye viewership rates, we know that quebecers largely respected the instructions and stayed at home. don't come and put us all in the same boat.
[les lockdowns sont inutiles]( change my mind m. legault
reminder: the politicians who force you to stay at home are in the south right now
can you show us how you handled the situation?
minion
because people meet more in closed environments. it's naive to believe that people actually make 100% effort. people cheat and lie. welcome to homosapiens.
because in june-september the world could chill out.
there, everything is closed so there is nothing to do, so people have meetings / supper / party and do it inside and it is in this environment that the virus spreads the most.
> like the flu, is it just because it is colder that the virus survives better?
the southern us is the most covid-affected location in the world. also mexico and brazil.
in addition, influenza also exists in tropical countries without winter.
it's mostly because people meet inside.
worse, the schools were not yet open.
another factor mentioned is that the intake of natural light (the sun) in summer being greater caused people to absorb a more balanced dose of vitamin d (in addition to improving morale in people in general). was noted if i remember correctly that vitamin d helped prevent covid (although not as effective as a vaccine). it seems to me that a vitamin d deficiency had been noted in many people with the coronavirus and that the phenomenon has been more frequent since the summer has passed.
this is exactly it, the virus survives the cold better, look no further in the conspiracies please.
because there hasn't been a single week that big box stores, public transportation, convenience stores and other "essentials" (sic) have been closed. the second wave also came when the government refused to reduce the number of students per class (because, tse, that would have meant investing more in education and hiring more teachers, or * no way *)
that and the fact that people are inside and that to date, the only transmission to prove is the aerosol
me (as a no-name specialist in nothing) i think it's more a question of "distance" in our social meetings. in summer, we are 3m on the grass in a park and we are comfortable. in winter, just to talk to someone, naturally we get closer. at 2m, we have the impression that we are far away, that it is "cold".
and we are in years to speak. where the ventilation is a lot less efficient than outside.
because we are all more locked up, the virus spreads best with aerosols (think smoking cigarettes) and therefore closed places: schools, work, etc ... with the hot weather that arrives it will be better because we are more outside and we open the windows. so yeah not for nothing that we are sicker in winter.
be careful, the world of this subreddit will call you a conspiracy theorist!
ding ding ding, we have a winner!
the virus survives best when it is cool, and with low humidity (two characteristics of winter) and also when it is not exposed to uv rays from the sun (less sunshine in winter, and we spend less time outside).
this is probably the difference that makes the virus seasonal, like the flu for that matter.
you have to close the saq at 6 p.m. instead of 8 p.m., that's how we're going to settle everything.
so that's the real question: the intensity of the pandemic and the intensity of our social contacts do not seem to go together. the measures are restrictive but things are going up the same when this summer it was still relaxed and the cases were low. looks like it's indoor air quality or something. the air changes maybe.
hello guys! my name is miguel and i have been doing many maps nin this tyle for a while now. i know that "x" in the style of mario has been around almost as long as the game itself, and well, this is my take on the province! i hope i have made you justice. can you spot all landmarks i included?
edit: i have been given green light for me to post my store, so [here ]( it goes. thank you all for the awesome comments!
the famous region of saint-louis-du-ha! -ha! is well represented!
very cool! the border with labrador uses the route of the privy council on the other hand, rather than that of quebec :)
charlevoix being elevated is a nice touch
this is great! do you have a etsy page where people can buy the image in hd format?
i like the first nation representation ! very thoughtful of you :)
the map looks great!
you can add a last village at the far east without any road. (blanc-sablon)
neat map! i think it might just be missing an extra hydroelectric dam since they are so important to quebec:
«the 7,722-mw robert-bourassa hydroelectric generating station is located on the la grande river in northern quebec. at 162 metres high and 2,835 metres wide, it is canada’s largest hydro project, the world’s ninth largest hydro project, and the world’s largest underground generating station at 137 metres below ground.  
the project’s 53-storey dam was constructed in james bay, and its iconic spillway is channels 17,600 cubic metres per second structure down 10 gigantic concrete steps, each the size of two football fields. this design, nicknamed “the giant’s staircase,” slows the water and prevents erosion. the reservoir covers an area of 2,815 square kilometres and contains 61 billion cubic metres of water, meaning each inhabitant on earth could draw 10,000 litres of water before it ran dry.»
it's the wrong québec/labrador border, litterally unwatchable! /s
seriously though, it's a really nice map, good job!
lol the pyramid of la baie.
is it me or the eastern townships does not exist?
it's-a-me, mario dumont!
it is really nice!
shouldn't charles martinet be saying 'ce moi ?'
where is our labrador?
poor laval. always left out and it's the third largest city in quebec. most of it has the architectural charm of a mall parking lot but does have a rocket ship.
oh if only there was that much water around quebec... 😜 j/k
this is incredible. merci!
wow! i like it a lot.
this is really cute :3
it's nice
make it a real game !
i'd love to see this for all provinces. kind of a map of the region's forrest's plains mountains and harsher colder climates and more mild ones.
super cool map!!
i'd play it!
i want this map as a poster.
that's a lovely map you have there, hope you get around to doing british columbia!
the islands of the madeleine are a passage to an underground world
it's adorable, i really love it!
this is absolutely adorable. great job op!
@thegeographypin i'd love to have a print of this!
that's very cool
the pyramid of ha! ha! de la baie is a nice wink!
great work!
can't wait to see alberta.
montreal on the north shore? ouch. i mean that's technically true, but oof.
that's really well done! is there a way for me to purchase it? i'd have it frame in my study room!!
this is adorable. 💖
it's a super nice card. well done!
the abitibi should have been an underground level instead!
that's really cool! have you done the other provinces? i think it would be a lot of work but a full canadian map that looks like this would be amazing.
all those who do not dwell on the star are inferior beings
oh and now what, the rest of the canadian mario universe has to give them all their gold coins too because they can’t come up with a sustainable source of income? next thing yuh know these mfs gonna be saying toad is a second language that the whole country needs to speak and their misfortune is because of bowser even though that mf would never step foot in the place.
i really appreciate the detail of the mine in abitibi
last time i checked it was not an island
i hope when you're done you link all the maps you did together in a google maps style browser.
c well done in calisisssiiiddd
awesome! do you sell the maps you did in this style ? might be interest to decorate my office !
shut the fuck up
[removed]
what kind of software do you use for it? only vectoriel soft such as illustrator? or some others for pixels for an example?
the result is that
make that
it makes that
faque
haha i was told one day that we, the french new to canada, are recognized for 3 things:
\ - we take the squirrels in photos
\ - we're releasing the canada goose in october
\ - he uses the phrase "suddenly" ...
suddenly my dear friends suddenly suddenly you're saying see you next time.
as a result.
hey it's almost like the smurfs!
my english colleague after his first meeting: what does "faque la" mean?
well that annoys me but since it's true, i prefer to say nothing, that would annoy me even more ...
honestly, we have the same problem with "genre" and "fake".
quebec: it was pleasant / fun / extraordinary, unforgettable / sick / breathtaking.
france: it was good.
question for the french: is this abuse of "suddenly" a relatively recent phenomenon? it seems to me that this was not the case in the past and now it is dominant and very widespread as an expression.
you should crosspost on / r / rance!
but suddenly, do you guys really use all these synonyms?
in the background = suddenly
i approve
does that, does that, does that, does that, does that?
so let's see ...
i've been studying in quebec for 3 years, not once have i heard people use left-wing words. on the other hand the "genre" "faque" etc ... yes. ironic
je suis un stupid anglo who can’t really understand this but i’m pretty sure it’s tres drole
it will be better with the real quebecois in the left column, i don't often say that "like that" when i talk. juss the same!
québec side should just be "fak"!
we are not much better with our "udder", if we are honest lol
you forgot the traditional "fa-que".
basically like tse pis i too chu pomal sometimes like the
"pi"
"beyond"
"faque"
fa fa fa fa fa ....
suddenly suddenly suddenly suddenly we could make a sentence suddenly then suddenly suddenly would be suddenly a variation of buffalo suddenly in american in real life
translation: so in conclusion, if i understand correctly, we could make a sentence that suddenly would be a variation of buffalo, in english.
3/4 of the examples on the left are only very rarely used orally.
oh come on !
genre
college i got a rock in the winshire like
and now do it with our scares: p
this one really made me laugh hahahhaa
we can do the same with * "it's crap" *, instead of stupidity, nonsense, nonsense, cruel, imbecility, nastiness, anything, ineptitude, bullshit, faribole, sterile, nonsense, clumsiness, stupidity, off the mark, superfluous, harmful, aberration, nullity, overdone, odious, outdated, inability, atrocious, null, ineffective, useless, negative, empty, vain, repetitive, pedantic, unproductive, pretentious, unsuccessful, ineffective , ridiculous, bad, inhuman, pathetic, mediocre, diabolical, mediocre, overpriced, futile, etc.
with the difference that telling someone that their ideas or projects are "shit" remains a rather violent gesture in itself, if not very rude ...
haha 😆, i like this one
hi
this one is really good
haha when i arrived here at work after a few weeks a quebec colleague, one day when i said "suddenly" asked me why we say that. i never knew how to answer xd
haha the comma !!!
i am worried that by dint of talking about it we will end up catching it. and we are going to be in the grip of 15 years and it's the french who are going to make fun of us
does french say “parisian”? shouldn't we rather speak french depending on the district? it's like the english-speaking guy who knowingly claims to only speak “parisian french”. bs. (bull shit ??)) hihi
[removed]
coup, seethe, malde.
tabernacle
ask a french person to say "un grand brin brun", you'll laugh.
my partner is french, our company is called du coup.
quebecois: “hey man, i find you well chill and ben smat but check ben, i don't always catch your french expressions. anyway, it's such a fun chatting with you ”
fraçais: my dear, i find you very sympathetic and we are having a good time. but to be honest, i don't always understand your quebec expressions. in any case, it's always fun to (talk to me to have you / cut the bib together) [choice according to the language level].
yes, the quebecois is cowly more developed in all cases ...
i'm not sorry, it's just absolutely true and correct.
~~ would it be possible to change the text of our flair suddenly? currently it is written "france" but "suddenly" would suit me better. ~~
i can do it on my own!
suddenly, a language that uses a word differently depending on the context is not a simple language.
we are quebeckers once!
so suddenly that's what!
english: the shawshank redemption. quebecois: in the shadow of shawshank. french: very bad prison
titanic
the titanic
very bad ship
worst of all!
english: happy gilmore
québec: happy gilmore
france: termina golf
tabarnak d'ostie de criss the title is the name of the main character! there is no reason to change the title!
i do not understand the french logic of replacing a title already in english by another title in english? 🤷 it's quite ironic!
you might as well keep the same ...
english: star wars
quebecers: star wars
france: very bad spaceships
vo :game of thrones
qc: the iron throne
fr : very bad ending
english: slapshot
quebec: slapshot
français: la castagne
english: the longest yard
quebec: the last one tries
france: the longest rod
anglais:not another teen movie
quebec: not yet a teen film
france: sex academy
anglais : the good, the bad and the ugly
quebecers: the good, the bad and the ugly
français : the good, the very bad and the ugly
english: avengers endgame
quebecois: avengers endgame
french: the very bad game revengers
english: click
quebecois: click
francais: very bad button
this war of poles is candy
from experience, many french people do not understand the title "lendemain de veille" and laugh at it as if it were a bad title "ah, the day after the day before, so today, it's nullos, i don't see the report!". they do not understand that a "day before" in the quebecois language, that means staying up late at night to celebrate and therefore that "the day after" is the same as saying "hangover", and in moreover, the day before lends itself very well to the film which concerns the events following an excessively drunken night where people must find out what they did and face the consequences.
english: schindler's list
quebecois: schindler's list
france:
pulp fiction
curvy fiction
very bad royal with cheese
what happened to this one:
original : don’t tell mom the babysitter’s dead
france: panic among the crandells
quebec: don't tell mom that the babysitter eats dandelions by the roots
english - twilight
quebecer - fascination
french - very bad romance
the best is: honey, i cut the kids down
they hesitated between "very bad" and "suddenly" to insert in the titles of the films.
english: silver linings playbook
quebecers: the bright side
french: happiness therapy 🤔
* usa: cheech and chong's up in smoke!
* qc: cheech and chong we need to find the seal!
* fr: very bad marijuana
quebecois: le diner de con.
us : dinner for schmuck.
france : very bad diner.
english: the edge
quebec: on the edge of disaster
france: very bad bear
i like how we pronounce * vewy * as in english while the french rather say * verrerie * as if spain had landed
you are good quebeckers. hahaha! and us, bad in english… sorry… very bad in english.
to arms, @ r / rance we're not here to fool around
aussi very bad movie posters
the funniest thing is that the french people don't stop complaining about the fact that the titles are translated, but in the end they do worse, he keeps an english name completely different from the original, but that sere what made it?
taken
le taken
very bad taken
darth vader = dark vador ???
the war is raging
the french speak very bad french
they had done something a bit similar with airplane, which they translated as "is there a pilot on the plane", then "is there a ..." was used several times in france for parody films with leslie nielsen, even though there was no connection with airplane.
naked gun -> agent pranks -> is there a cop to save the queen?
repossessed (parody of the exorcist) -> is there an exorcist to save the world?
me, an ´anglo’ enjoying popcorn and the quebec vs france memes
what is the point of changing the title if not to translate it into the dubbing language?
the saga and the brawl continues!
hollywood: very bad things
rance: very very bad things
oof, touched
but, we just put movie reviews in the titles, hence all the "very bad ..." and the deer hunter, translates "journey to the end of hell".
very bad i narrowed the kids
english: american pie
french: american pie
quebecois: graduation madness
i love this post!
frankly, real titles are just as funny as those invented for exercise!
i don't have any examples that come to mind at the moment, but i remember that in one of my cinema lessons the teacher had talked about how many film titles in france gave films the punch. while the original translated well lol
english: infinity war
quecequois: infinity war
french: very bad roches
omg people who speak french in a territory where we speak french, what a horror 😅
we're not perfect either:
- hollywood: *a history of violence*
- quebec: * a history of violence *
the translators / adapters seem to have literally translated "history" which in the sense of the title means "history" or "past" rather than "history" in the sense of "story" ... * a violent past * would have been more precise. the french kept the original title.
i don't get it. they are not translating it. they simply stamp a completely different english tittle.
aeh but with us they are champions of changes of titles to the idiots. when there is a title like the hangover, they fuck you up with the hangover everywhere. the same goes for 50 shades of gray, they screwed up 50 shades of fat for a manga called the elf who ate too many french fries in japanese and plus size elf among the anglo-americans.
worse the basic marketers in this branch have shitty ideas, like with spiderman into the spiderverse which they changed into spiderman next generation. i don't have any other examples under my belt but damn it drives you crazy at one point.
would superbad just be super bad?
can someone explain this for an english speaker? “you are cellars”?
it’s funny to me. sooo many comments the last few weeks upvoted like:
“the curfew is useless. it’s not based on any evidence”
“the curfew is killing my mental health”
“the curfew is too far of a restriction form the government”
“how long are we going to accept this”
“we need to do something”
“at some point we need to protest”
then people actually do do something....
“what a bunch of conspiracy theorist morons”
lurkers in r/quebec be like...
another demonstration against sanitary measures? but why are there so many morons out there? courageous lady, but it could have been risky with all these cracks.
i love! thank you madam!
i'll try to say something and hope to be clear enough.
i have been a "leftist" member of qs since its founding and i was in all protests in 2012. i believe in science and i do not believe in conspiracy theories. i am anti trump.
recently, however, i perceive a disturbing divide in the mentalities of several facebook friends. on the one hand, we have the conspirators in full panic. on the other hand, we have a group who have blind faith in any government or public health decision.
i'm sorry, but i'm going to say something harsh: just because you're attacking a conspirator by lining up behind science doesn't mean you're smart. between hyperbolic doubt leading to complete relativism and total submission to the authorities, there is a very large gray area. treating ideological opponents as a "cellar" has the opposite effect than what is sought by further mobilizing opposition to the measures.
personally, if i had to choose between blind submission to measures and opposition, i am on the side of the opponents. i have seen too many vicious and dishonest attacks by pro-measures to continue to be on their side.
continue like this and we will lose the population not only on the covid, but also on much more important subjects such as the environment and social programs.
in two days she will be on tv because she is being harassed.
lol @ covidiot who say she is the cellar because she is with people.
clearly his family.
please prove the point of his sign.
i don't understand the people who complain that she doesn't wear a mask, despite the other people present ... what? they are most likely roommates, considering that the rents are insane around here and that 3-4 in an apartment is better off a bill of $ 1000-1500 than alone. since last march i lived with 4 people in shared accommodation, worse sacrament if i had to put on a mask 24/7 would have been stupid. the reason we're still in this mess is because people can't just think of themselves for (literally) 2 weeks of time. are the restaurants closing? "boohooooooo how are we going to have dinner with the family boooohhooo" .... they reopen the restaurants.
unnecessary stores close:
but sir how i will survive without purchasing a patrol toy to my 4 year old flo ????
... reopens the stores.
schools are the most proprietary and non-safe propagation places, given that a child does not care about health measures and that there are hundreds of them in 15m² ...
schools will reopen without wearing a mendatory mask ... oh yes, we're going to put bits of stupid plastic instead of having hand washing and masks for everyone.
the reason why the covid is not over here is not because of the whole world. it's because people don't have the balls it takes to be an introver for 2 weeks. yes it doesn't help us delays or any international covidot but sacrament is it really that hard to understand that the covid dies if there is no contact for 14 days. not 365 and more. 14. ridiculous for real. it has grown so disproportionate through the fault of the people at 95%. at least the govt. he tries to find and apply solutions, while people will just whine and not follow directions, for 14 days.
you are basements?
[deleted]
put it on, ginette
is she pro or anti-confinement? i can't understand (real question, just to be sure)
i don't know if it's brave or reckless to show this sign to 5,000 people who know your address ...
mouhahaha: d
context?
these people protesting are fucking morons.
they all deserve to poke the covid criss. we call it criminal negligence.
let me be hugged all this in prison.
that's when i said to myself damn that i like living his côte-nord xd
totally agree.
yeah i saw that in the morning. t'sé when the journal de montreal treats them as covidiots on the front page in big letters ...
omg he announces so beautiful all week !!! 😍😍😍😍😍 do you do 1 demo per day ??? we have advanced the time and we will be able to demonstrate in the sun almost until the curfew!
are you in the same family as the mushrooms?
2 weeks and the curve will be flattened friends don't worry people outside it's just basements stay home and save lives don't be criminals.
i’m i wrong or is she with like 5 people not wearing masks ? and she’s saying that anti mask protesters are stupid ? what
well, there is the echo chamber which still insults the world it is in disagreement with. why? they don't even know it, they just don't think. they are told what to think and they obey like npcs
obese person who sends shit other lousy, dystopia have just peak
what manifestation?
i love this person! 💙🤍💙
i love it, this lady represents me entirely
first they ignore you, 
then they laugh at you, 
then they fight you,  <- we are here now
then you win
is this a remake of bougons 2021?
but she is brilliant with 4-5 people without a mask on a mini balcony
their opinion is worthless.
quebec is the florida of canada when it comes to the current pandemic.
period.
when you thought that the purpose of covid was to kill humans, but realized that its "hidden agenda" is to divide populations across the world and create conflict.
[deleted]
[deleted]
but what are they doing grouped together less than two meters away, without masks?
ah yes, that doesn't count.
his rights, if we do not exercise them, we lose them.
you are stupid
it's a verry quebec expression, calling someone stupid (referencing to their head being empty). you wouldn't hear anyone from france using it.
caves = idiots
the french that i am also did not understand anything. don't worry
despite others' explanation, i came up with my own twist thanks to mathematical language: cave is short for concave, which gears well to the term someone who is obtuse, or off the mark.
i'm just gonna pile on.
in context, it's really dismissive. dumb really is the right word, it's like an exasperated sigh followed by an insult.
there is a big difference between thinking that the government sometimes goes too far and is incompetent, and thinking like the organizers of this demonstration that the confinement is a dictatorship of a supposed new satanist world order.
it's almost as if there was more than one person present on / r / quebec. conspiracy? i think we have something!
just because someone is skeptical of certain government measures does not mean they are necessarily an anti-mask, anti-vaccine, pro-trump, etc. extremist. that's the problem with the demo, it's the noisiest and most extreme ones that get all the attention and make everyone look like a cellar.
i think the curfew is silly, and don't see how its effectiveness is in any way proportionate to its restrictiveness.
but i'm not going to associate myself with anti maskers, anti vaxxers, trump supporters, qtards, and conspiracy nutters.
"the curfew is useless"
also
"with the curfew it's harder to see my friends"
if his house catches fire, he must cover the fire! it's in the name "curfew" duh!
esque
yes, you have the right to be outside on your land.
so you go out into your back yard and watch your house burn down. at least you won't be cold. bring marshmallows
"mr. leblanc, house fires are not allowed during curfew. it is recommended that you renegotiate with the fire so that it starts between 5 a.m. and 8 p.m. obviously, if this is not possible, be sure to wear your mask and maintain a distance of 2 meters from the fire at all times ".
it depends if he's an essential human or not.
bro, the captain sinks with the ship.
seriously, isn't that a joke?
only if you need to walk your dog
ontario guidelines are followed:
we stay ... at home.
it depends. are you an anti-vaccination and an anti-mask? yes? stay in the house.
/ s obviously! but it's either a stupid question or a question to ridicule the authorities.
mario the great quebec troll.
"esque" .... soon in a winnie the pooh meme near you.
* facepalm * .... 🤦‍♂️
no, you have to stay at home anyway
awaille at home
unless the fire is part of your family town, it has to leave your home by 8 p.m. otherwise, the police will have to penalize you both with fines.
firefighters are not allowed to go out anyway.
fire is not allowed to pound anyway so you should be safe between 20 and 5
either you burn or you catch the virus. your choice.
what an idiot. he doesn't even know you can be in your yard after curfew
yes, you can go out, but don't forget your wallet for the almond ...
yes you can go out but take a mask.
he must imperatively stay inside.
no compound words, shorter, so readable ...
esque >>> is that
you have to stay in it, because the flames kill the virus.
it's sad, in 2021, i don't know if it's a granny or just an agrarian ...
pfft, good photoshop.
just call 911 and say your house is on fire and it should be okay
the most impressive thing is knowing that people think they are smart when they ask these kinds of questions.
no mai's, what's going on in quebec !?
what an artifice of ignorance.
growing up there, it's terribly sad to see where you seem to be.
is it you just me who is more afraid of the police and the government than of the covid?
hahaha i saw another one where a peripatetician was asking if she should ask her pimp for a paper for the work she does.
\[so\]
legendary xd
“you are going to die a horrible horrible death. "
- radio-telepathy
they should let this person out of their house if it is on fire!
it should be okay, there is clearly not too much paper in his house
natural selection.
na bro sorry tu burn
if your house is on fire you are made homeless so you are not yet exempt from the ban on being outside after 8 pm.
you go out but you get a ticket
vat trash cans.
now you insult me. lol. i'm a dummy.
but why is it that this generation does not know how to write french properly? i'm from quebec but i grew up in the united states, so i went to the lycée français and i'm happy that i write well
why does tva publish such quasi facetious questions? it insults the viewer base.
what's the difference between a ham sandwich and quebec, a ham sandwich is white and racist, but quebecers aren't all white
don't give ideas to the covidiots!
hey ti criss de fifi do you want to pound the truth because of you? bin stays inside and no exceptions little bitch thank you
> he must cover the fire!
no! that's the tva job, that.
take my vote good sir.
france
it's fucktop.
problem is, coconut crush is no better in terms of fucked up beliefs: /
it really raises the debate this kind of silliness ...
no more acceptable on bernier's head than o'toole, trudeau or singh.
come on, we don't do this to the party's choice. i hope they won't get confused. i'm sure he didn't do it next, it's an eggcident.
i hate bernier as much as anyone who doesn't have sand between their ears, but that's really no way to act that kind of bullshit. : |
no matter how much i hate bernier, that's not acceptable.
the kind of thread that shows the true character of some people who think they're cool by saying that bernier deserves it. you are pathetic to read with your arguments like "yes but bernier did x, y and z so that justifies the act" without thinking about the social and political consequences that this kind of action brings in the longer term.
there, it's an egg and it's trivial but later it could be a stab in the screen.
we are one of the luckiest countries to be able to walk and discuss with any politician who finds himself in a public place without having 58 secret service / security agents over the top which prevents us from having healthy discussions with these politicians. i remember in 2017 when i was on a break sitting at an outside table with my colleagues and there is just trudeau who sits at another table not too far from us and that was all he did. there was more normal..no security shitshow. now? the third of the country want to attack it. it's been tough in summer.
but tser, it's funny because the guy has a different political vision than yours even though i don't agree with madmax's speech at all. must attack him! i am going to attack you others since we do not get along at all levels, it will be justified and you will have to laugh at my retarded gang ..
i don't like bernier but that's not correct.
it is not done
what a fukin moron… really classy you degenerate
i wonder if it would be so lightly taken in the thread if it would have happened to the leader of the ndp, or even to yfb. in a democracy it just has no place and it should be strongly condemned
like i said, you can't make an omelet without breaking some eggs.
now imagine if some white quebecois did that to some indigenous leader. all of canada would be ovulating claiming racism and demanding action.
🙄 this is so lame. i’m sorry, but egging someone isn’t going to do shit. no offence, but this kid is just bringing attention on himself. the camera was on him the whole time, it’s almost like he’s just doing it to be known.
security hardly did anything right after the egg. they called the police and asked the guy to wait for them. he waited with them outside and the police let him go. if you wanted to know how serious his gesture is, you are reassured ... or not.
we keep demonizing the world we don't like and encouraging stuff like that, it never ends badly.
do you have a gun?
only my head.
i prefer the cartage.
far right?!?! does that mean centre in this commie country!?!?! if the egg were reversed it would be a “hate” crime! what a joke!
i imagine the native guy's full potential has been achieved with these 5 minutes of internet fame. not strong.
that’s assault tho
hopefully that person was arrested and jailed.
from behind, what a coward
good
e g g
personally, i would have preferred him to eat poo, but we can't have everything in life
instead of assaulting someone, use your words...
i have anglephone manitobain. i don't speak french, but i understand the word “bravo!”
bravo!!
lmao
that’s assault brothah
amazing! that guys a douche
welcome to canada
you reap what you sow.
maxime bernier is the only political leader who denounces the delirium of health in canada 🤷‍♂️
u / ananos_tipbot 12
he should get knocked out 
tough guy with a cheap shot
awesome! thank you my man!
disgusting and completely unjustified.
did he have any sanction? a slap on the back of the head of his father to put his ideas in place perhaps?
i guess he gets more money from the libs.
luda!
it only shows the class of a person who could absolutely have jumped on the thug, but knew how to keep calm
pathetic... this is the liberal left. get a good view of why people hate liberals everyone.
what a pleasure to see frankly
hell yeah
vote ppc. only sane party
lollll
the dopamine rush resulting from the pats on the back from the progressive cucks infesting reddit & twitter will be totally less fleeting this time around, i can tell.
because the left does such a good job lmfao. go egg trudeau you muppet
... faque a dude of qanon crushes an egg on mad max. it will not be stupid to get the vote of the conspiracy and anti vaxx
such a motherfucker. no balls. it doesn't happen. in addition, maxime tells his agent to let him do it. class vs trash. i would have picked it up this fdp.
the police should just have a car as a prop that people can freak out during the playoffs to let people let off steam and tell them to go home afterwards.
it reminds me of the cellar on the plains during the quebec summer festival which dragged its 4-5 year old children to a rammstein show, leaving them sitting on the floor on empty beer cans, against a hanging fence. what 2 hours. while filming the show on his cell phone so that his blonde will then feel uncomfortable to be escorted out of the crowd more quickly once the show is over.
it will age well when in 15 years the algorithms that manage the price of its insurance will fall on it and misinterpret the context but identify the person correctly.
tell me about that, kevin proud of his gâââ
maybe with the victory of the stanley cup they will not arrive in a patrol vehicle?
“look, you see mom and dad pay taxes to fix police cars” (͡ • _ ͡ •)
well of the world speak out against it and say that the parents of the kid are thick or whatever but you,
sometimes in life you have an opportunity to do something silly that presents itself and then good to grab it.
probably neither the kid nor the parents are responsible for the overturned tank but faced with the fait accompli that it has been done, out of their control, why not pose in front of it just for a laugh?
it remains clearly for the pleasure of doing it in front of the opportunity which is offered to them, are obviously not responsible.
when there was a fire on the crémazie metro station, i went there to see i met my cegep teacher who i had not seen in 4 years. i posed with in front of the flames. stupid maybe, yes, but when i sent this to my old cegep buddies (brush buddies too), it's so wtf as a photo that the reactions were at appointments.
every year google reminds me that i did that too.
a good memory.
r/trashy
besides the fact that it is trashy stalling as a photo i would just be afraid that the tank would fall on the roof and crush my son.
that being said when you're a big shoulder flipping tanks because your team won you're not exactly known for your informed decision making.
we have to start them young
this car was ours
[deleted]
if i were at the spvm i would arrange to deploy the oldest vehicles / those i like the least on game nights, so it would be easier to have them replaced.
this is montreal in a photo. an orange cone, everything falls apart, rubbish everywhere, a demonstration, a broken police, a religious fan of a sports team
thought i was in r / idiotsincars at first sight
we start the young anarchists 😌
jesusss
r/trashy
but can someone explain to me why people would destroy this in the first place? they celebrate a victory, they are happy, not frustrated.
for a moment, i thought he had fangs .... fiou
a photo to send to montrealers with their tax bill.
he flipped it himself!
calisse
proud of you boy
its depends on the context.
if it's "we're going to take a photo with irrefutable proof that there are caves in life and that you have to be smarter than her."
i’m sad, i’m canadian yet i don’t know french
damn quebec’s hardcore
borice
> the young harry who has just completed his first * spivium leviosa *!
that's what you have to be violent now when you're happy
11:30 p.m., evening of st-jean ... yeah.
beautiful decor ... remember what exactly🤷‍♂️
its all spies from tf2
how badly bred your child, a free guide for all
ouach, just ouach. nasty moron parents.
yep seems like montreal likes to burn with idiot fans.
you know what, these probably the best idea i've heard yet. i'm pretty sure it could work for real. you will give the idea to the mayoress of montreal.
a balloon in a police tank that the world rush into the crowd.
many people think that this is indeed the case with this one
yes, just a body without seats and with “sugar glass” windows and without an engine.
really just a seemingly car that costs nothing if you destroy it.
an esti of old tank painted white and a lettering "police" written in quaver, it does the job
it would be funny to see a toyota tercel painted as a police tank.
or just ask the police to come on foot, there is no tank
this is the most beautiful thing i read today ... no joke ...
i had thought of that! under surveillance, it wouldn't be worse
with cameras inside, microphones that record everything and antennas to pick up ids from nearby phones. if not already, honey pot for thugs?
is it disgusting
start approaching the top there
well, let's see you have more ears after a rammstein show
hahaha your gone far there
you can see the exact moment at 0:43 where he says to himself "fuck it, i'm going, i'm insulting the lady in his face". it's golden.
they did all this to get accreditation and they are asking this question?
it was worth it ! / s
i mean first trudeau is right, it is not the government which gives the accreditation.
and secondly, i do not see the relevance of the question at the base ...
blanchet will be able to underline the contribution of the bloc: trudeau was pushed a column!
i did not know rebel media before the news of the judgment.
why do they keep saying it's trudeau blocking them?
on their site:
> justice elizabeth heneghan agreed with us that justin trudeau’s hand-picked debates commission was wrong to have excluded our rebel news reporters from attending the leaders' debates.
> this was the second time trudeau tried to censor us — he blocked us in the 2019 election, too, and the federal court ruled in our favour then, too. 
but, the commission said of itself:
> we are an independent and impartial public body with a mandate to organize two leaders' debates
yes, it is true to say that the commission was created by the trudeau liberals in 2018. but the commissioner (david johnson) does not look partisan (at least a priori). he had been elected governor of canada by the harper government!
in short, why attack trudeau on this issue, if only to sow doubt and disinformation. if you have evidence of interference with the commission, take it out publicly, let's see!
wow he should just speak english he can be really good
what is the question? i can't understand her.
i think rebel news popularized the idea that 59% of the covid cases in israel are among the double vaccinated
[deleted]
for those who don't know rebel news
[ 
> the commission rejected last week, just before the long labor day break, rebel news's request for accreditation. the commission considered that this media had violated the rules on conflicts of interest, as it was actively involved in certain social issues that are directly addressed during the election campaign, which rebel covers.
>  
> rebel news network had secured an emergency hearing in federal court on tuesday when the commission denied 11 of its journalists the necessary credentials to cover the event on site - and in fact to be able to ask questions of the heads of the top five parties during press briefings after the live debates.
[the founder of the proud boys (now an extremist group in canada), recently joined the 'journal'] ( /)
fun fact: éric duhaime has also already participated
i'm not a fan of trudeau pentoute but i agree 100%. well answered!
he followed blanchet's advice ... he got a column pushed!
good for trudeau. rebel media are disinformation jerks.
haters gotta hate.
the moronic right wants more division,
that's clear.
\ -> carbon copy of the american whimsical right.
which answer!
i don't know about you but every time i hear a politician use the welfare of children to get his point across i find it cringe.
edit: except when it is issues that really concern children.
i love his haughtiness when he comes close to calling them a media organization
i don't speak french. only english and spanish - what's the general consensus here in the comments about his response?
i dont speak french, but dayum, sick burn especially at the end there.
interestingly, the terrorist who killed several muslims in new zealand in the mosque in 2019 was influenced by rebel media and gave them money as a donation.
another reason not to take rebel media seriously, they are crazy.
wow! i do not expect that! i love the answer.
almost perfect loop
bang
"journalist" "rebel news"   
good joke
he expresses himself well and expresses my thoughts well.
it's going to make the media trash at some point.
rebel media is a joke ...
i don't know who's following them, but they must be stupid people
can someone give me a transcript of the question at the start? i do not understand.
can someone transcribe the question at the beginning for me please?
i understand trudeau's answer, but i can't quite understand the journalist's question ... can someone enlighten me on what she said?
what a great answer
y’all leave justin alone!
i hate the guy, but damn he does make a good point
my boi justin speaking the truth
owned by trudeau
mega kill
bam
well said! thanks u / mr - x for sharing.
justin put on his underwear in the morning, siborium!
rebel = trash human beings.
in your face rebel news lol!
rebel media, like the win of quebec fier, ontario proud, canada proud etc, it's really a win of esti imbeciles.
and their followers are certainly no better. bunch of idiots.
the trudeau fuck
honestly…. as an american…. i wish that there was an ethics board for journalism like there is for lawyers and judges and so many other professions that have huge influences on people. holding people up to basic ethical and moral standards isn’t a bad thing.
i'm a fan of trudeau for nothing in the world, but we all have to appreciate the fact that he gave the best answer imaginable.
chauuuuuud pataaaate. well yeah trudeau
cuts deep!
the canadian nao.
he grew a column.
king trudeau
what a chad
i rarely (if ever) take for trudeau. but there, hat.
i'm not a trudeau fan, but his answer is oh so satisfying.
fucking savage. love him or hate him, justin knows how to choose his words.
guys with hair like this, sen calisse from the price of your rent.
flash news: a government elected by the suburbs torch the metropolis.
the caq is the party of the family, just not the one crammed into a 4 and a half at $ 1400 per month
at a press briefing he just said that he knows the price of rents in montreal because, and i quote:
> i have friends in the very middle class.
a boomer, who steers like a boomer for boomers! pi besides ye millionaire, the guy has no idea about real life!
but lucky us, will go there again at the next election !! : p
my theory is that this week he read the story of the lady who was paying $ 579 her rent in co-op after 40, by chance. "i know the rents start at $ 500-600 .... for 24 hours."
check i'm really not a fan of legault, but i don't really understand the controversy. he said rents start at $ 5-600 and quickly increase to $ 1000. it is absolutely right. the question was not “what is the price of a nice 3 1/2 in villeray 5 minutes from the jean talon metro?” montreal is loud. there are 2 1/2 at $ 550 on viau.
the good thing about this story is that a lot of people will have learned what the median is, and how it differs from the average ...
the problem with rents is mainly for 2-bedroom apartments going up. i had to leave montreal for the suburbs following the birth of my daughter. the 5 and a half in montreal is overpriced.
i am torch that legault knows the median price of rents by heart. what i want is action from the different levels of government.
anyway, i'm going to leave quebec and it pains me. but the salaries are too low, we pay a lot of taxes for supposed services that we are not able to have. i'm not going to spend my life in a semi-basement in longueuil and see my husband rush to find a job because he is allophone.
i hope all of this will pave the way for developing a model that supports the "middle class" well.
also, what it is like to be poor in quebec in 2021 and what is considered acceptable in a rich society like ours.
when a guy with a secondary 5 makes 100k in the north and the same guy born in montreal makes 27k at minimum wage, what can we do to have a fairer society?
[deleted]
have you ever happened to be a clown to open your mouth and not say a bullshit?
earns $ 205,793 per year. you can not make as much cash pi not be disconnected as the criss. also .... omg how can you say that pi not ask you "how are people on bs doing with 734 a month for a living?" hint: steal food and moonlighting pi if you get caught trying to survive in jail, fine, pi pay back time even if you are not able to feed yourself.
[deleted]
there are plenty of small studios under $ 600. they certainly won't be in award-winning locations though.
afterwards say that it is the left which are "cloud diggers". young people wake up!
for your information, here is a rclalq survey of the average rent for rental units on kijiji by neighborhood in june 2020:
** south-west and verdun **
any size: $ 1,411
5 and a half and more: $ 1,547
** hochelaga-maisonneuve **
any size: $ 1242
5 and a half and more: $ 1,580
** plateau mont-royal **
any size: $ 1,383
5 and a half and more: $ 1,766
** rosemont / petite-patrie **
any size: $ 1,184
5 and a half and more: $ 1,630
** villeray / st-michel / parc-extension **
any size: $ 1,121
5 and a half and more: $ 1509
[source] (
these are not perfect numbers (since we do not have the profile 5 and a half and less), but it is the only study of apartments for rent that i have found.
but otherwise, following legault's $ 500-600:
> a simple search on the popular kijiji classifieds site yesterday for a $ 500 apartment on the island of montreal yielded only one result: a two-room apartment in the basement of a building in the north of the city , in the ahuntsic-cartierville borough.
> the journal could only find a handful of apartments for rent between $ 500 and $ 600 per month, mostly studios.
[source] ( according to-legault #: ~: text = elle% 20reminds% 20that% 2c% 20 according to% 20les, sleep% 20y% 20is% 20de% 20810% 20% 24.)
i believe it would take even more immigration to lower rents.
not yet understood why people just say "in montreal" when in fact, the price he said works no more for the suburbs of montreal. i am not far from beloeil and the price of a 4 1/2 is currently $ 1000. if you want a 5 1/2 because you have one or two children you can easily exceed $ 1200. some newer neighborhoods cost even more than that.
we haven't seen anything yet. the bubble will never fart. prices will continue to rise exponentially, as will the rest of the bass amenities. hyperinflation inflation awaits us. the worst is yet to come.
you can be pissed however you want, he said rents start at $ 500-600 and that's 100% true.
stop arguing with emotion, lord.
the biggest problem with the exchange between mr. legault and ms. massé comes from the fact that he did not answer his question, namely if he knew the median price of rents in montreal. he answered like a good politician who avoids the question and that's a good reason to be pissed, not the other
i thought i would move soon, but with my relatively good 3 and a half under 700 i think i will not move ... it really exploded, i arrived on time. i pity whoever tries to leave for an apartment these days.
"fais juste po live to tes moyens lol"
we have reached the point of wanting to mix vaccines ... we curfew and we screech businesses on the ground not a cat reacted. we're scrapping the kids.
we are talking about a $ 500 apartment, everyone is shocked. does that shock you?
😂😂😂😂
guys with hair like that have your rent money at the end of the month .....
even in quebec, below 700, you don't have much viable
nice meme hahahha
there's even hair that's too long with not enough hairspray for your typical real estate commuter.
i might be wrong, but the question was about student accommodation, right? i have the impression that the controversy comes from a lot of media which try to distort the words slightly.
in fact, the pm even acknowledged it.
either way, whether he knows the information or not, he probably doesn't care about this crisis.
translation pls
so there is no one aged 50 and over in housing ???
couillard's mane is missing
the solution for a reasonable rent is to live with your parents at 27 or to be a roommate, frankly make an effort and stop complaining, it's not complicated ... 🙃
salon quality hair lego sen chalice of your rent
at the beginning is it english? i understand him but why is he there?
it is written in good french in addition
is it ken griffin?
ah frenglish <3
what you are in bad faith. it said "from $ 500". pfff.
results of a 5-minute search on kijiji, marketplace, and craigslist: 272, 93, and 108 listings for rentals under $ 620 respectively.
it's embarrassing that the media didn't take those 5 minutes.
not to mention that the $ 1,500 apartments are rarely inhabited alone. it is quite common for two people to live in a $ 1000-1200 apartment and 3 people in a $ 1300-1700 apartment. the accusation of being disconnected is exaggerated in my opinion.
meanwhile, the rest of canada has no idea what’s going on in this sub 😇
wow, i feel like i'm listening to radio-x when i read your comments.
it's sick ..
"legô knows pô that's what happens !! he is rich, he may understand ...."
it's full of beautiful, well-thought-out, well-structured, well-thought-out sentences ...
i am proud to be part of your group!
do you know the difference between the start and the mean of a data range?
even in the suburbs of greater montreal, the price of rents and houses is skyrocketing.
no, but i can confirm that the rent prices are stupid elsewhere than in montreal, eh, it's not just your problem.
> flash news: a government elected by the suburbs torches the metropolis.
except that when montreal's problems spill over into the suburbs, they'll be stuck in having to take care of it ...
even in sherbrooke, they freak out the apartment blocks, just show off (beautiful quartz countertop, heat pump, washer-dryer), keep the floors crooked, etc. they screech the world outside their 3.5 / 4.5 at $ 500/700 to rent them 1.2k + for the 3.5 ..... last project that i took part, 1.5 in an old building basement for 1.1k + / month .
everyone from montreal who points out, redeems the old blocks, strikes everything except the exterior walls for acquired rights. in sherbrooke, trois riviere and other medium-sized towns
there is no rent in the suburbs at this price either.
> the suburbs
exact.
also him:
my kids in their late twenties live with me because it's too expensive
not even in the middle class. friends who grew up in the middle class, but who probably make very, very, very good salaries.
i work in a grocery store and the other day a lady arrives and tells me no introduction: "this is where the fish dough"
i, who have just understood that they are talking to me, am like “the patafiche? what is patafiche? "
the madam said to me in exasperation "well there you put it on (she mimics something that looks like someone covering a pie)"
me: "oh you want pie crust? "
the madam (visibly frustrated): "well, no dough for the fish!" "
me (who has just understood): “oh you want breadcrumbs? alley 4. "
she doesn't leave thanks nothing.
look, if you're not able to express yourself like people, at least you're happy that someone is taking the trouble to understand you!
who calls for the batter of the fish batter to be fond of?
edit: i take my post to say if you have something in your hands that you don't want it anymore give it to a cashier instead of damn it anywhere especially when it's frozen or refrigerated.
no need to be current i have a medical condition
we should post this in all service places. there are some who just don't look good sometimes.
is that the “cheap grocery surplus”?
i love.
little anecdote:
it happened in a small rural village almost 20 years ago. i was on a road trip with a friend and they stopped at a convenience store to buy me something. i was all alone in the store and was about to pay with my debit card when i was told to wait because the owner is on the phone and apparently the debit cannot be used at the same time. meanwhile, my friend is waiting for me in the car, but i decide to wait. one minute. two minutes. three. i wave to the gentleman. he motioned for me to wait a minute. i'm waiting for a fourth. a fifth. meanwhile, i listen to what he says and realize that he is talking about a fishing trip.
i loathe myself and clear my throat hard to get his attention. the cashier and the owner then look at me as if i had just shit in the convenience store. he hangs up, i pay, i say thank you with a beautiful smile and i end my camp. since that time, every time i see a poster like that at the entrance of a convenience store, i have a bad feeling.
what i love is when they say badly spoken english words, with a thick accent, and when you don't understand, they say "what? you don't understand the french chalice?". so you answer "yes, if you had to use french to start, 'barnak". "y is where the masha 'tator". as if i knew their cries of jargon. 🙄 he was using mash potatoes but was so confused that it was not even understanding. speaks french or english but takes in a worse stay with.
guess they dealt with one karen too many.
shit it should be everywhere, send it to legault
not bad, quebec is different from other regions where the customer is the king.
to meditate...
we should keep the posters even after the covid
an arrogant sign that says don't be arrogant ... ironic.
he should post this everywhere
patafiche is worthy of / r / patamogle
i had the same affair with a client who asked me to advise him in the "wood eater", i thought i had misunderstood with his accent so i brought him in front of the weed eater and he said to me "no no, you don't understand, i want a wood eater" college i replied that it was that a weed eater. finally he wanted a chainsaw.
[deleted]
ca is well worth an esti d'upvote st'histoire la. kin toé! and thank you for your work!
> that you want more give it to a cashier instead of sacred it anywhere especially when it's frozen or refrigerated.
am you really the only one to return to the place i have to pick up something to put it back? seems to me it's not that hard ...
ok, sometimes it happens that you misread the price or that in the end you want something left in line, but give it to the cashier who actually got there. i've seen chilled chicken left on the cereal bar before. i would have been putting it back in the fridge but you don't know how long it's been on the shelf, so it's a total loss ... really desperate to see every day how dishonest human beings are, selfish and lazy.
of the patafiche come on!
s't'aura des boat a woelle
> i take my post to say if you have something in your hands that you want more give it to a cashier instead of damn it anywhere especially when it's frozen or refrigerated.
i am discouraged by society when i see cheese left on a shelf next to the flour. the people are horrible. do not let go!
> who is it that calls for the breading of the cuddly fish dough?
probably the same kind of person who calls smoked herring "hara boutchené."
i worked in retail as a salesperson during my baccalaureate at uni. during the summer i had a position in my field of study for several years, but as my job took me to travel, during my sessions i was a salesperson in a store.
the last year i did this i must have been a little sick of having to sell warranties and also shit clients, because i was no longer making the effort to push / sell services and warranties to clients. i told them even if the competition had better prices on similar products, it was so much more fun to serve customers. and the passive-aggressive clients cursed that it had become fun to make them pump more and be absolutely no help.
having worked 7 years in customer service in several places during my student years, i really feel bad for those who do it full time. bad people for nothing there are everyday and it ends up disgusting you of life
was expecting some fix dough but i imagine that this franglais is more logical in quebec (or elsewhere or there are english speakers)
i've worked in the grocery store long enough to realize that miserable people are part of the game. fortunately they tend to be silent once served.
[deleted]
yeah
on sen calisss
"mashed taters" in fact. and i have no respect for people who express themselves like that. when a kid talks like that at school, we send him to the speech therapist, damn it!
yes.
> patafiche is worthy of / r / patamogle
o wow, thanks for the link. i'm cramped!
tabouère i watched this for a few minutes and i lost enough neurons for 2021
wow i didn't know, but yeah!
holy poo. i have lost too many neurons.
oh god ... i'm sinking into a black hole ... you shouldn't have linked that. i'm cramped, stiff!
this is the french version of r / boneappletea
ohh my fucking god, i come to reddit to find a pot, i fall on your comment. hold an award!
let's see 🤦‍♂️
even seems to me an illiterate with 0 education from a village background 60 years ago could say fucking chainsaw.
fuck this, j'abandonne
do you know the famous sculptor alcid balbo?
pierre, cuddle ...
lol thanks.
yeah, don't put something cold back in the fridge if you find it on a shelf, it's a waste.
no you are not the only one. that's it and those who leave the wagons of carts lying around in the parking lot that make me peter a tick.
you next to the poudapain
dequessé?
seriously find a pint of milk hidden behind the liquors .... tabarnaque you went next to the cash register !!! are you afraid the cashier will judge you for changing your mind? what the hell is the problem? seriously, i don't understand.
wtf lol i haven't heard this one yet.
why are you trying to hurt me?
avatar: earth, fire, air, hydroquébec
hyrule.
the image of quebec is fictitious because it does not show that labrador belongs to us as far as the atlantic coasts. ;)
* my country is not a country, it's winter! *
quebec + the maritimes, that'll be cool.
bordeciel
vvardenfell.
n'wah.
how did new foundland even start to be a province? such a weird map separation compared to everyother provinces.
onétokebekicitte
why are you blocking this image?
☒ i am in this picture and it bothers me
never two without three.
gta is missing in your thing.
i am a sovereignist and proud of it, but no kidding, les terres du milieu> quebec.
tamriel ou tyria tbh
francophones speak french in the commentary.
me, trying to practice my french.
i have never seen maps of middle-earth including south and east, to my knowledge, the only maps published by tolkien only include the northwest section of what is shown, and whether any continents are mentioned in the books to the east and south, they have never been represented in tolkien's work apart from these mentions. where does this card come from?
r/tendpeu
republic of vermont
skyrim is better
for what it's worth, i picked quebec. it snows like narnia, and there's no orcs.
belgium
as a country we would either have high speed rail and great transit or we would have highways everywhere
quebec is heavy in esti ... middle earth all the way
three rivers
pictures
living like a hobbit, uneventful, with a lawn roof over my head, a round door always open for an old friend, and a hearth to warm my feet.
all i’m going to say is i love this is on the quebec subreddit. nice play op.
nice i live in a fictional country what luck
ha ha. or newfoundland! island nation. main exports: hydrocarbons, cod and screech!
taiwan
middle earth.  quebec is too unbelievable.
e - westeros
lol
the circle of the world !
sensitive little ones come out on reddit
it's stark's house. do your men speak spanish, yes?
the khemed
dope wars
ouch
lol this one is good
:(
well let's see what is this incomplete version of quebec? why would a big chino be missing in the north east and the island in the east?
genovia
quebec, could be?
woah
the forgotten realms >>> the rest.
well i don't really like the other ones that much apart from like the mario world so middle earth
does the lost continent of mu / atlantis matter?
quebec lol
store food, mini boiler, sand toy, flowerpot ...
the possibilities are endless!
well let's see, it's clearly a pot of vomit for the kids. just the right size for their face and the right countenance. 2 liters of pure pleasure!
this is my excuse for buying ice cream.
being of immigrant origin, i didn't know you were storing food in there. i have seen it used as a bin before, but never as a tupperware.
my mom has like 50 dishes of margarine in their house to store food, i've never seen her buy margarine.
a jar of coaticook the lid does not close well enough for my taste. i much prefer the margarine and yogurt jars to recycle in freezer jars or for my leftovers / lunches.
that said, an anecdote. once i was visiting my brother. i arrived late at night and the next morning i got up before him. i make myself comfortable and make myself a coffee and 2 toast. i look for something to put on my toast and i find a pot of greaves. the disappointment when i saw that there was half a tomato in it. i search in the fridge, i find another pot of greaves, i open it and .... another half a tomato in it! finally i ate nothing toast.
when he gets up i tell him that, he starts laughing. "worse moé lcave i don't buy greaves because i think i have them".
i don't know pk but your meme pleases me in criss
it costs 20% of the price of a tupperware, it does the same job, it comes with 2 liters of ice cream still good in it and no need to deal with a saleswoman in professional crisis in her mid-thirties who will give your email to her sales friends of avon, herbalife, beachbody, amway, arbone, doterra. who is the cellar going to do without it?
[deleted]
best ice cream and best containers
are you just me or have we ever had glasses with card game designs that were originally jars of mustard? why is this wonderful idea lost?
when i make spag sauce, it's a jar of frozen coaticook for a big weeknight supper, and the rest in jars of yogurts for lunches!
and i grew up believing that i was the only one 😂. coaticook, thank you for saving me from buying cheap food at the dollorama for 15 years!
don't forget the blue metal cookie jar with the lid that's still stuck
fruity to post this meme on instagram 7 hours ago, sadge
this is my compost bin.
you god damn right
for the cravings there is the pot of becel.
me it was the dishes from when i ordered chinese.
almost all ice cream containers make a good reusable container.
they do nothing to break these asthour dishes, but before yes, i would have agreed with this meme.
do you say that ice cream or is it me who's stupid?
somebody once told me they were from coaticook, i was confused and replied the ice cream factory? 🥺
these are my popcorn bowls! a bag fits exactly inside! thank you coaticook!
the other time i heard a french call it a "tupèroire" and that upset me.
profit !
sorry little chef !?
it works well to make a small batch of ceramic grout
ideal for picking raspberries (except in saguenay - lac-saint-jean where we take a pot from the laiterie de la baie to pick blueberries).
ayoye ... i have like 8. these are the dishes that we use when we give food to the world. like that, no need to return them to us. bonus: this is one of the only ice creams that doesn't taste chemical sugar.
wait, don't people do that outside of quebec ?!
the lid of the new coaticook pot model does not fit on the old ones, and vice versa. it's getting confusing in my messy plastic cupboard ...
ahah my sister-in-law has 13567632456 tupperwares and also keeps all the pots like that, i don't know how my brother manages to get by xd
yoghurt pots too.
do not forget them.
worse when you have your mother who puts them all for recycling because we have too much of them and my father is going to collect them secretly in the bin.
my childhood
that's better than squealing them at the drain x)
absolutely 100% correct 😂
yes sir!
perfect as a chamber pot!
in the past, it was the plastic dishes from the local chinese restaurant that we reused endlessly
well the youngsters put their weed in glass jars of spagatta sauce.
~~ ice cream ~~ old fashioned tupperware.
their ice cream has these the best!
in france, we have the quality street box, alias: is this a box where to put the thread and the needles?
and there at some point they change the format slightly, the opening circle and the lid have a micro variation in diameter, and suddenly your collection of jars and lids becomes nightmarish because not all jars fit all of them. the lids.
ideal for the spagatte sauce in the freezer !!
i've been away from my home in the eastern townships for so long seeing a tub of coaticook ice cream while i'm scrolling on reddit hit me in the feels
for my part, it is the perfect dish for my fermented pasta when i make bread.
nb also
it also works for growing apple trees in it!
we all have at least one parent who has a dish like that with kind of soup in it or something.
yes totally
#fakes ... to the number of indigenous villages that do not even have running water ....
ooof
i laughed, but it hurt at the same time. haha
excellent meme tho
it's not genocide if it's only cultural
i took 6 years of manitoban french and all i can do is count to ten :/
cant type it i can only say it that’s how bad it is
they did not make the war we massacred them for wood and beaver skins and we know the rest 🙄
canada is a hedge fund not a country
i was listening to a lecture recently given by a japanese woman who spoke about historical revisionism on their wikipedia. a korean woman mentioned in the comment thread that pottery techniques associated with japanese culture were allegedly stolen from korea.
since then, i have wondered, if by trying to correct the wrongs of our ancestors, we would not have an equally myopic view of the past. maybe it shows a certain luxury of our era; that of having time to think about the consequences of wars fought previously. but is it because we assume that the world was perfectly peaceful before the colonists arrived in america? or is it that violence is only reprehensible when the wounds are still fresh?
the lifeguard = the international community and the un
calm it's true!
 ✊🏽
immigrant perspective: you are all native, just some longer than others.
i shouldn't laugh and be sad and all but not first reaction was to laugh lol
what about multiculturalism? it's a bit borderline like the same.
i think this is something both sides can agree on
the qc is and has been as racist and brutal towards indigenous people as the roc. no difference.
good viewing ;)
[deleted]
i have a better image than that to illustrate canada.
my girlfriend wanted us to paint the basement red and white during the parties, well we just found a water infiltration and there is a lot of damage.
it illustrates canada for me
red white and a hole that will cost a lot
poutine. that is all
[removed]
then why is everything in canada bilingual except for in quebec where everything is in french ?
please separate already
quebec, a child unable to swim without canada.
it's really depressing, those who see themselves as victims as a francophone is absolutely pathetic compared to what the indigenous peoples have gone through. trudeau is a happy imbecile hypocrite and imagines that by dressing like native custom the thing would be settled but still build pipelines in their territories. the future quebec government must do better than the federal government if we want to have the indigenous peoples on our side for the future challenges ahead
[removed]
hundreds of millions have been given to fns for free every year for decades. much more than other groups. i do not see how that constitutes a situation as in the picture.
[removed]
would you drink the water where there is a skeleton in it?
i can't speak for all the villages, but some have been offered a sewer system and refused simply because driving the sewage and water trucks are paying jobs they don't want to take down.
talk to the chiefs who prefer to pay themselves big salaries rather than take canadian money and build aqueducts.
thank you xd
ont appel ca un [ethnocide](
stop bragging about your special needs tax breaks bud
just like all of our high school years where i learned absolutely nothing during my english classes. netflix taught me more than that...
that is sad...
yeah it's a little more complex than that, but yeah.
also of the territory ... this is the part that history lessons talk less about, because property is the most sacred value.
it's more complicated anyway. diseases played a huge part as well and several clans were already at war with each other. well, that does not mean that we are angels of course ....
uh no what is vision of the past.
lol
i would tell you that with the aboriginals, it is not just to correct the wrongs of our ancestors, it is to correct the wrongs that the aboriginal communities experience every day.
on the historical revisionism side of canada / quebec, several wiki articles tell different things depending on whether you change between english and french. it's disgusting.
poetic 👏
and the electorate!
/r/im14andthisisdeep/
i take that as a compliment thank you :)
there are three spots in the template, no places to include everything unfortunately
to.
ohlala you made everyone in the province cry. you are helping the rest of canada so much by saying that.
because quebecers already speak english enough. english is learnt by necessity and almost everyone ends up learning it. if french isn't forced somehow, people just don't learn it. it's a complex issue with many factors, but the end result is that if everything was left to evolve naturally, we'd get similar results to a completely free market : the big become bigger, until there is only one biggest, and every others smaller than average simply disappear. that's what's currently happening with languages in the world : while english is gaining ground everywhere, there are between 100 and 200 languages that go extinct every year.
edit: typos, many typos
we can't, you won't let us go.
i am the witch and i use my saq potion.
calisse, stop cheating! worse, the dead don't talk.
“next 4 weeks”
yes yes
and the day: vote for whoever you want to blame for the pandemic!
the coronavirus is the impostor
honestly here is what is crisse de marde:
1) no fuck to close schools even if it is one of the main vector of contagion.
2) no damn forcing parents who do not work or who work at home to look after their children instead of sending them to cpe
3) without messing around, close the shops at 7:30 p.m. ... you don't have a tank and you finish working late, you have it up your ass. i guess instead of doing my grocery shopping online like i have been doing for the last few months i will have to swarm after the job of doing a small grocery store, several times a week ... very efficient.
you made me laugh so hard! take your vote to the top!
it is not in criss!
a curfew by leaving elementary schools open is not going to solve the problem.
excuse me, but wouldn't it be better to just close the schools completely ???
oh shit i was at a big orgy in ville-émard and i missed the press conference. what is happening ?
be careful, if kevin marquis comes across this meme he will become rich again!
government: teleworking compulsory!
the same government: schools open!
just saying ;)
i take this opportunity for a plug:
mental health discord server
"it will end up going well" courage people!
best meme i've seen for a long time, bravo! hahaha
hahaha but phew it's scary too. i am a teacher in alberta resuming classes at school next week ...
best even on r / quebec for a while
the police should do as in the united states with the riots right now ....
after the werewolves of thiercelieux the werewolves of terrebonne
aw man you make me miss playing this in grade 7: ')
manufacturing is sus
this game sucks so bad
moé chu the hunter, worse i choose to shoot the covidots!
heille 6 miles because you want to take a caliss walk
a small shot of spell 7 years old
i am cupid and i touch françois legault and justin trudeau mouhahaha
[deleted]
you want to cure yourself of the coronavirus take the chatreuse shooter👍🏻🥳😎
*maurice duplessis enters chat*
dude, thank you!
i had the taste to get angry at morning fak i listened to a little open line ... the world said there without embarrassment and in the same sentence:
1-we cheated during the holidays and we saw our families.
2-i'm sorry about the curfew, the government takes us for children.
calvary ! you behave like a child, don't be surprised.
a curfew is being put in place, but children will continue to spread the virus in schools and companies continue to transmit the virus to each other in the workplace in construction. but oh also your parents 65+ can't babysit. here in 3 weeks they will be surprised that the numbers are not going down.
worse even when schools and workplaces have been dead for 2 weeks, we continue to vote for them!
i saw the coronavirus go through the classroom vent!
the essential kinda sus sqdcs.
criss how funny that is. i would love to see you working from home with daycare age children. to be in this situation, i can confirm that it is impossible, at that age it still requires almost continuous attention.
closing schools would just increase the dropout rate and send all the children with family problems (even the smallest ones, for that matter) to a state of total wasting. the problem in schools is not the measurements, the measurements work (i tested myself, we had a case in my class and no one else caught it because we respected the measurements) . the problem is the cellars who decide to party on weekends. worse, i think they learned their lesson when the school closed two classes a week in november.
btw i don't know if you've already done an online course but it's been two days since we came back to school and i already want to shoot myself. most students' averages drop when lessons are online, and it's not for nothing - lessons are boring to death and you don't have much resources available outside of class time.
i say that i'm in the oldest. so if it's supposed to be “easier” for us to go online to school, i guess not for secondary 1s, and online school must be totally impossible below that. so closing primary schools is depriving children of their education. without forgetting the academic and mental retardation that they will have.
i agree with the cpes for parents who do not work. but schools are necessary and for the mental health of young people and their well-being, the school must remain open.
do you have a source to say that schools and daycares are important vectors of transmission? real question. well of the world say that but i never see data on the role of the various sources of contamination. according to the testimony of an intensivist that i heard the vast majority of these patients had contracted this by grouping together among adults despite the recommendations.
so in your opinion the education and mental health of children are not too important.
it's much more important that you don't shop for groceries too often👍
> i guess that instead of doing my grocery shopping online as i have been doing for the last few months, i will have to swarm after the job of doing a small grocery store, several times a week ...
at the same time as everyone else, to maximize your chances of catching the virus ... criss of colon move from the serious government.
i don't remember who gave the comment, but it's easier to control kids in schools than at home, especially teens. in addition, no school, a large part of the workers can no longer attend.
personally, that would be closing non-essential factories or at least reducing production / ridership. i still do not understand how we can fully produce with so many people unemployed and / or in debt across the world. it's not jokes, there is a shortage of recreational vehicles ...! the post pandemic will spank in tabarnak with so many people spending in a time filled with uncertainty.
but hey, for now what worries is that in 1 month our health system will be overloaded and the triage will begin. no chance that it will decrease. we have adopted the same kind of measure as europe and look at where they are ... worse than quebec.
the only accomplishment tonight is that the government was able to hyper the press conference almost as much as cyberpunk was.
> you don't have a tank and you finish working late, you have it up your ass. i guess instead of doing my grocery shopping online like i have been doing for the last few months i will have to swarm after the job of doing a small grocery store, several times a week ... very efficient.
have you delivered?
why didn't i understand, i'm told that the shop remains open but my boss says that the shop is going to reopen (we make melamine furniture), what the fuck is it opening or not?
my cousin works 12 hours a day and has 4 to take care of. no postmodern parentage excuse is acceptable.
how much transmission is there in primary schools?
do you think they have the material planned for this? well then. therapists asked last march for webcams to do remote monitoring, they still have nothing. we are governed by incompetent people who put curfews to give the impression that they are doing something. they are idiots.
schools are not so much to blame. at least not the primary. change my mind.
they will have two mask per day! we know that schoolchildren will follow these instructions
ahah thank you but it's not from me! i saw him on / r / rance a few weeks ago when they started curfew, i only changed to quebec. i would have credited the original but i can't find it anymore :(
take it before 8 p.m. your walk?
[deleted]
except that sugary alcohol is pretty much the worst thing for the immune system ...
c't'oeuffrayant.
pfff, t'eggzagère!
delicious eggs
[deleted]
without forgetting the good old meggdonald
l'eggscrément is in my opinion the best breakfast restaurant in quebec.
ah, i remember that i made a top 10 2-3 years ago of the best names of breakfast restaurants in quebec:
10- breton pancake cracker
9- eggs-taxes
8- what's egg
7- les co'pains first
6- bread in the sails
5- the bread beast
4- l'eggs'o'tick
3- the egg planet
2- engage yourself
and the cream of the crop:
1- hot bread fantasies
corsican egg!
ben and florentine join the chat
i look forward to the opening of françois l'eggault
my favorite: eggsoeufs
esti who did not break the bike
what is this? hello mon coco does not eggsiste?
it's bacon as a choice
i always had the impression that there was a hidden word game in the name of this restaurant, but i never managed to understand it.
word games *
egg-cellent meme. 10/10
beauty and the b-egg
tutti frutti would like to join the conversation.
i didn't know there were so many eggs
storytime: since we're talking about breakfast restaurants, i would like to mention that a few years ago, a restaurant was called `` les filles du matin '' in the district of lasalle, and there's a gang screeching little pigs who believed this was a place where you could eat your eggs with * breasts * in your face.
they were completely disappointed when they got home, it had even been the subject of a newspaper article.
the thing was, it was just two girlfriends of women who had gone on this together. the restaurant still exists, but has changed its name many times.
and everyone goes from their personal word game to co-con’t understood the first time ...
hard, pocket and slender men.
"from the q of the hen"
eggroll eggroll ! :p
egg-weary egg!
i often pass in front of a restaurant called “les d'oeufs copines” with an egg that replaces the “o”.
i like going to eat at their place. * at whose place? * at their place. * where ???? * chez-oeufs.
i'm still waiting for the egg-crémant and the egg-split.
bad in oeufsti!
it's just breakfast ... don't panic.
taboeuxrnak eggsti
they should be eggscuse
haha eggxelent
there is a lot of puns
it's very vregg
kitchen 73?
you forgot hello my coconut
i don't like eggs ...
ben and the flo tbnk
'in bon meggmuffin au meggdônale
ben et flo!
i don't understand the graph except. there are a lot more restaurants with word games with eggs than there are on quora, right? it should be almost full with a small line, not 50/50.
the mother hen just escaped beautiful
eat my egg
eggsquis
someone thought it would be easy to make an assignment in their marketing class, but in fact just kicked 12 people out of their future business.
this is eggcellent
nothing beats a potent pun!
i said eggsactly the same thing the last time i was downtown amazing!
eggski
poor meg! it is probably the only one in this picture who would get vaccinated without complaining in the family.
no need for salt for my popcorn .... there will be plenty on this post.
i love that the government of quebec added the passport. people who are double vaccinated and acted in the communities best interest should be able to enjoy life as much as they can. 
those who go on google and think they did research and found out vaccines are bad can eat shit. it's your dumb opinion vs the entire medical system. get over yourself. 
to those who think a passport is like the fourth reich, stop talking and get an educated on what happened in the holocaust and quit using jewish deaths to try to prove your invalid points.
the vaccine passport is basically what a drivers license is. proof you probably won't kill people by being stupid. we live in society together our actions can have consequences on others. 
we need to do our best to protect our neighbours and ourselves.
sincerely, anglophone from mtl that fucking loves it here.
to be taken with humor, please!
at the same time, we had so many lockdowns that i already got into the habit of rarely going to places that were forbidden to the unvaccinated. i must not be the only one in this situation.
i'm a simple person: i see a family guy meme, i * upvote. *
i want to say thank you. i practice french and this is the first meme that i didn't need my girlfriend's help to understand.
sorry if that doesn't make sense. french is not my mother tongue.
i predict that the return to normal will lead to an increase in cases, and that the government will use the unvaccinated few as an eternal scapegoat to wash away all responsibility.
that but without the humor tag.
me, doubly vaccinated, who refuses the vaccination passport on principle, with my red sweater, shrugging my shoulders:
guess i'll stay home
vaccinated eck my two doses!
but for real, the idea of a vaccine passport bothers me ... whether you're at the restaurant or the grocery store, protect yourself. do you have a cold, are you vaccinated? don't go to the restaurant, stay at home. the vaccine is not an excuse to be able to follow the sanitary measures. the unvaccinated have their reasons, whether it is because their immune system is not strong enough or because some belief would pierce their morals ... who cares? i just think that if we are to open up to the vaccinated without health measures it is useless. just because you are vaccinated and you are protected does not mean that you are protecting others.
even double vaccinated i do not eat in the dining room. it's on the patio or for take out only.
i am doubly vaccinated but the government does not stop moving the goal line like charlie brown who gets his ball removed every time he hits it.
they will eat mustard with their vaccination passport. i'm going to order some uber eats, i don't like the movies and i'm going to continue to train outside / stationary bike.
the vaccines are 66% effective for delta and the vaccine does not prevent transmission.
so full of people with vaccination passports at the restaurant, cinema, hockey theater, etc etc = increase in cases and new confinement like this.
there are some wacky anti vaxxers arguments, it is true, but the government has no idea what it is doing and the measures keep changing.
they just don't want to give benefits to workers / companies anymore if they have to re-define and are going to let people get sick like your vaccination passport makes you less at risk.
with the billions of the 3rd link absolutely not necessary we could all stay with us paid 1 year we eliminate the c-19 from the qc and there is still change.
i'm just here for comments
the only losers are the restaurateurs
double microchip here. i don't go to the restaurant in normal times and i would go less with the passport. i got over government business that i eat too much junk.
shut up meg
perfect for me, a good excuse not to spend 50 dollars in a chilling pocket, plus it will save me money!
exactly,
all generations have had to adapt to changes whether in society, climate or technology.
[deleted]
as someone from ontario who only took grade 9 math and then stopped, i am happy that this meme that showed up in my home (because of reddit) is something i understood. very cool.
it's alternative, but what bothers me the most is this tendency of the government to think that we all have cell phones.
for my finances, a cell plan at $ 80 per month (approximately) is the difference between putting some money aside, or being squeezed by the throat. (i earn 36k per year, i just started again at the bottom of the scale at 40 - and i'm poor in sacrament -)
so the cell, after going over my package a couple of times, took the edge off.
suddenly, we are asked for a paper, correct, i have my two doses, however, they could well have given us laminate cards; as i said rather, not everyone who has cellphones, the population of quebec is aging, and the paper, not laminating, after 1 years, will be downright scrap.
sure, i go to the local printer and ask for it to be laminated.
simply put, when the government requires something, it would be the least of courtesy to offer it in a manner that is suitable for use.
another trick, for the government, to make a small card is eg $ 1 a card; they already have the machines. while everyone, at staple, it's about $ 8 per card.
for 8m people, it would have cost 8m $, whereas if we do the reverse by going to staple, it comes down to 64m $. i use numbers like that, but in the end, it's $ 8 less in your pocket.
there is nothing there if you earn $ 80,000 per year, it is less hot if you are a boomer on the administration of annuities at $ 12,000 per year and housing that costs 60% of your income, income that is frozen in the weather.
tldr :
can we think of strengthening the weakest link in the chain before upgrader takes the next step?
ps: it is well known that canada has worst deal when it comes to internet services / cellular plans.
pps: last time i brought a young lady to the restaurant (st-hub) it cost me $ 85 for chicken. i seriously can't afford to do this every week, so get vaccinated or not, it's the lower middle class and the poor class, who just can't keep up with your pace of life.
take it out in esti my top hat you can be sure
can't wait to see if some people who were initially against the vaccine will eventually change their mind
your eyes
- meg
rather: the unvaccinated vs. literally everything else.
getting vaccinated for the simple reason of going to a restaurant. what imbecility!
the nazis
who are served by people not vaccinated
funny quebec has over 100k protesters walking the streets. i guess this is where all the cowards hang out 🤷‍♂️
but we are better than those who do not vaccinate
the businesses that were closed there indefinitely will be happy to turn you around. / s 🤡
the same is good, but unfortunately as a restaurateur, i see that it is not realistic. because if we look at the statistics of the health pass in france, bars and restaurants have lost 40% of customers and 60% in tourist areas ... after 18 months of closure, it will be the coup de grace for us. that 30% filed for bankruptcy this year ...
how we ontarians are doing, i will be in sherbrooke this weekend, i have my
2 vaccines but we don't have a passport 😞
yep, pretty much.
bruh
what i find most sad about all of this is the polarizing and divisive nature of pv.
they knew very well that between us we were going to bang each other's mouths to determine who is right: the vaccinated versus the unvaccinated.
and neither side seems legitimately ready to listen and understand the other side.
i just want to warn you that the vaccine passport is going nowhere. this is not a 'temporary' solution. so unless there is a civil revolution (lol), we will now have to live with it.
might as well get vaxxed then...
is good :)
in the meantime, double vaccinated here and i will not go.
however, will call to receive my own business card with my code on it. for when i really have no choice, use it. i don't know, to fill up with gas or to go and have my winter tires fitted, for example.
normie something rare ste even has it ...
0 cases that never get old
the jokes on the antivaxx
worse the children of antivaxx
they should put back the curfew to protect us.
lol the unvaccinated are stupid like meg too haha
my being among you not vaccinated, you will not even know lol
check if the application to verify the passport on apple will not be compatible with passports on android and vice versa. it's gonna be shit. that is without counting the people who do not have a telephone.
i don’t speak mexican
which ones?
federal, conservative party pcq i am for the decentralization of powers and a smaller state and more freedoms and responsibilities for the population. and control of the economy.
provincial, unfortunately i voted caq. but they were promoters, but pandemic boom and powertrip boom.
it bothers me to muzzle the debates. it bothers me that the population is so divided. it bothers me to be constantly demonized when we have opposing opinions, from both the left and the right. can we just talk to each other and even argue and then grab her hand.
we adults who love to be mothered ... it's sad :(
ahh quebec…canadas asshole
lol, we are the most vaccinated place in the world. we should be the freest place.
i do not know what the vaccinated are afraid of ??
all this to save a health system in which 50,000 million dollars are injected annually. no questioning about the overhaul of a dilapidated system.
we have pity as a company 🤔😔😶
darwin at work
inb4 illegal restaurants / bars. 🖕
there's no good reason to stick someone. there is no good reason to stay in the left lane unless you pass. thanks for attending my ted talk.
what’s worse is when you know damn well the guy in the pick up truck can see over top of you to the 15 or 20 cars that are ahead of you doing exactly the same speed.
big black ram with black mags, black benches, black carpets and a flat screwdriver in the box enters the chat
people who drive so close to others, and if they also drive a heavy vehicle, it's assholes, period.
there are no reasons for this. there are no gray areas; if you do that, you're an asshole
*autoroute 20 enters the chat*
the limit between the turcot interchange and 32nd avenue is 70, but even driving at 100 you are going to be in everyone's legs.
sorry for the lack of french. 
this is constant in bc too. all the aggressive assholes who would have bought mustangs 20 years ago now have massive pickups.
really don't need a construction vacation for that, most pick-ups are bought by everyone so you can be sure the box will never be used
it's been exactly 1 year that i have my license, i go exactly 10km / h more on roads and 117 on highways, and i count the number of pickups which are not dangerous. i'm at 0 worse it's not even a joke
be specific! it was a jacked up ram.
and it's always a pickup criss that makes 145km / h
reminder, if you are in the left lane and you are not passing anyone .. please change lanes.
relatable
like that dude behind me who honked me because i wasn't accelerating up to the car in front of me amidst highway congestion that was traveling less than 20 km/h.
i seriously don't see why we all need to be eager to give the car all that gas just to stop again. 
stop & go traffic can be eased out of by switching to a slow but constant speed...
calgary? is that you?
if you come and stick to my ass while i'm driving over the limit, i would really like to slow down to piss you off even more.
this is also r/alberta
i hate them why they need to do that also i canot break if i need it because they will hit me
one evening, a tank stuck to my ass with its highs for several minutes on the highway i was driving at like 105 he could pass me on the left if he wanted but he didn't, and after a while he took an exit worse once its highs changed angles in my mirror i was able to see the rest of the police tank stuff after
this summer i noticed that there are motorcycles that stick to me too. but it makes me think that my windshield needs to be rinsed well in the windshield washer.
we're all someone's fool and someone else's head. behave respectfully towards everyone and everything will be fine: don't stick to the ass, come and cut to the right to save 2 tank lengths, and don't stay in the legs of others who want to go faster.
shout out to those who stoke road rage when they are dissatisfied with someone's driving, at some point you are going to run into the wrong person and it will be tragic for you or someone else, and not necessarily "the one who makes you. take a dump".
and flushing headlights
have fun with your communities the losers !!
go back to the slow lane?
chu superman wandering behind a father who is not too comfortable to heat his trailer which goes out twice a year.
i did 120km on a scooter this weekend, and the stupid behaviors that i "caused" while driving under the speed limit are scary. holidays don't seem to fit the world.
just to give some perspective to the discussion "to block or not to block vehicles driving on the left, faster than you and above the speed limit":
get out of the left lane.
i don't know if i'm the cellar, but when it happens i just slow down safely until the big fool turns on and passes me 🤷‍♂️ i never go below 95 in passing
pick up truck with alberta plates
quebec, home of the worst drivers!
brake check to brrrrr
and still a man.
if you're in the left lane, stay away. if you're not in the left lane, no one has a reason to stick you in the ass.
what seems to happen really often is to pass already too quickly, like you go 130 in the left lane to pass someone who is going 110, and there is a guy who comes out of nowhere super fast and who sticks in your ass because he finds that 1) you are not passing fast enough and 2) you should settle down in the right lane as soon as there is a centimeter between your rear bumper and the front bumper of the tank that you just passed ... owl can you let me warm sacrament.
yes. it tabarnack.
a downside: if i roll 10 above everyone in the left lane and you at 30, it's okay you do what you want, but give me time to find a spot to settle down right safely before sticking me in the ass calisse.
i still do not understand the logic of settling in the left lane to let a guy roll at 145km / h.
if i am in the left lane and i drive fast (130kmh +) and the highway is saturated in both lanes, too bad if i block someone who wants to drive stalling too fast.
what is it going to stick everyone to quebec because sir wants to roll stalling too fast? fuck him.
in a perfect world, there would be fewer tanks on the road and the left lane would have room.
for anyone who rides the highways in montreal and quebec, the reality is that there are just too many tanks on the road.
it's as if the highway code was written in 1970 and still lives in a magical world.
tldr. left is for overtaking; in a perfect world that implies that there is room on the highway for all the tanks.
exact. those who drive in the left lane for no reason are as much a public danger as those who stick in the ass.
it is seriously time that the police how to fine those who behave as if they are alone on the road, especially those who do not use (or misuse) their indicators.
it's certain!
it was still my reality when returning from montreal to gatineau today on the 50 even if i was driving between 115 and 120 because they weren't screwed to make a real two-way highway.
the driver has a shaved head and wears these glasses: 
why are they always the same ??? a small penis club esti for real ...
when you get cut from all sides, all sides with a trailer, yeah you can be sure that after the 2nd that makes me cut, i will stick in esti
next to not leave a gap. the world are too stupid to understand the principle that yes you leave a pcq gap your a fucking trailer and it takes longer to brak / move forward. the region of the great mtl is a jungle, lucky for you and 0 courtesy *
so be it.
if the person is driving 80 in the left lane on the freeway
edit: can't believe i'm downvoted. hope you know you can collect a ticket if you drive 80 in the left lane.
also, i'd like to know why westbound in that end, the 20 is 100 (from norman, like) but eastbound it's 70.
at the same time, it's really stupid to subjectively put 70 as a speed limit on a highway
stay in the right… there will overtake you even the seedlings. it is the colleux of the passing lane that is raging.
but indeed it is stupid this speed limit ..
they’ve evolved in my town, the rednecks have winter trucks and summer mustangs.
thank you for being a responsible driver
why 117 in particular?
statistically, people who do 145kmh are 5% mounted tanks, 45% dodge ram and 50% f-150
during i wanted to argue, because i'm anglo canadian, i remember the times i ate poutine in other provinces of canada, and uhhhhh ... poutine is not canadian: /.
''quebec is in canada soooooooo''
pu capab.
i visited trois-rivières back around 2000 with my dad. we went to have dinner in our hotel and after looking at the menu asked about the poutine. our server kindly said, "if you want poutine, don't order it here. you need to go to *this* place. she gave us directions and off we went to a place whose name, sadly, i don't recall but i do remember they had a menu with dozens of variations of poutine. i think we went fairly traditional and i just remember it being a great experience.
edit: i wish i could remember, all i know is it was a two-storey building.
poutine is a metaphor of canada.
you take french fries and put english gravy and english cheddar on top of it until it becomes an unrecognizable mess that somehow works together.
a true quebecois patriot puts the sauce in the bottom sti.
can someone send me some montreal poutine to me here in ontario? i was born there and have never been able to go back for 21 years
québec is canada. the rest is just dlc.
verr. maj. ***
/ r / poutineisquebecois
quebec is in canada and canada is in north america, so poutine is american.
when i was a teenager i finally tried poutine (i'm from southern usa) at village vacances valcartier near québec city. can anyone from québec chime in as to how good their poutine is?
fuck your poutine, it's a game night. we're eating pizza.
worse it tastes better anyway.
ghg
edit: john leclair understood 
k but strangely i had some pretty good truffle poutine in calgary. each bite had the right ratio of cheese, gravy, and fries. still not as good as poutine in québec.
for real
toronto's poutine was probably equal to mcdonald's in taste but it looked less like a bunch of mustard than mcdonald's
i used to think poutine was canadian and have always loved smoking poutine. until i left for montreal, i haven't been the same since.
as someone who is basically from newfoundland i have to say, the poutine they make in newfoundland is incredible, honestly amazing, and i don't mean mcdonald's or whatever,  i mean genuine newfoundland made poutine.
canada is the only place i know of that had poutine
-> /quebec
oh
i dont get it
first poutine i had was in moncton in the 90s at deluxe french fries.
ugh yeah i hate this, everybody knows poutine is american
i traveled across every province and territory of canada in 2000 and 2001. back in those days british columbia, alberta and saskatchewan barely knew about poutine.
only place i found poutine(with cheese curds) in bc was a couple of arenas.
hey
anyone like mayonaise on their poutine?
poutine is as canadian as your passport.
1. 1. the poutine comes from quebec
2. 1. quebec is part of canada
3. egro, poutine is from canada.
poutine is garbage comfort food. your downvotes raise my self esteem.
lmao this shit again?
my god .. let it go 🥶
quebec is the worst province, self righteous cunts. 
fuck quebec and fuck messier
your a canadian province, its like saying rugby is a only native american sport, no, its a canadian sport because they are citizens of canada
god i hate quebec so fucking much
[removed]
the world who say canada does not just specify that it is in the province of quebec more precisely. this is not an attempted theft, just a generalization. if you feel insulted by this reconsider your serious priorities.
edit: it's like guys who are jealous when their blonde gets fucked. if he is insecure he feels threatened instead of just being proud to be with someone who is desirable and appreciated. same principle.
this reminds of the time i met a quebecker in north carolina.  i mentioned that it was good to see a fellow canadian at the beach and he got all pissy about the fact that he was quebecois, not a canadian.  i asked him what nationality he declared at the border and he just stomped off.  poutine is both canadian and quebecois.    if this bothers you, you need to get over yourself.
if quebecers want to have their own country they can fuck off to france, and we will divide the land among neighboring provinces. 🖕
i’ve lived all over canada, and surprisingly, the best poutines i’ve had outside of quebec were from mcdonald’s. good fries and enough infrastructure to get good cheese across the country. 
i die when people tell me i should check out smoke’s poutinerie or some other english-american novelty place though. butter chicken is great, but it does not belong on a poutine.
you should try uae poutine. it's medre
sorry for my bad french. i am not native.
- "the meech lake accord" joined the chat -
[deleted]
maybe but you can't have fresh cheese curds in the roc ...
triiiiiigggered
quebec is in canada.
a traditional poutine is the way to go for the first time.
probably, chez courteau! best poutine at trois-rivières !!
stratos? legendary place for poutine in trois-rivière!
i understand that cheddar is english, but wikipedia gives it origin in quebec! 
a crazy metaphorical trio.
not all cheese curds are cheddar!! 
my favorites are from la fromagerie bergeron (in lotbinière near québec city) and they make gouda cheese curds!!
you put on curds, not cheddar
they take frozen fries on top of that. as if that was acceptable.
c not cheddar hahaha
we'll put it aside for when you come back!
it's a great project. but replacing the ocean with carpet is still going a long way.
blockplan
as an american, i can confirm yes, i also vote for the bloc québécois⚜️
b l o c    m a j o r a m a s k
as long as blanchet keeps his power stance
credit: [l'actualité en memes] (
french here, by dint of seeing the same people from air quebec, i became a fan of yfb.
yfb for president of the world?
the #poussetoiunecolonne xd is missing
long live global quebec
b
still far-fetched to think that poutine has become a quebecer
in a symbolic gesture, the newly elected prime minister, yves-françois blanchet, will burn the canadian constitution on the steps of the citadel of quebec and inaugurate a new political era, then announce the imminent military liberation of french populated communities residing outside quebec.
did you know what? the first time i did the electoral compass i came across the bloc directly. i was flipping. i have the same values, as much social as economic as for the environment. there is only one difference. i want this for more of the world! i want the same as the block, except i'm aiming further. i want the same for canada.
i read comments in r / quebec and r / canadapolitics during this election and i find that there are many people outside quebec who are in the messages and values of the bloc and who find yves-françois blanchet a very good politician . there are people outside quebec who would vote for him and for the bloc if he had the chance.
the other day in my dream i dreamed of being a politician in the bloc that had changed their mandate so that it opened in all the provinces. it was sick. in this case i still want a ...
majority block !!!
not sure that madagascar would go to the bloc, moé.
this is so funny what the hell.
the funniest thing in all of this is the angry people of the b-maj grannies, who say "never!" or better, who say "it's impossible!"!
i love
blockity bloc world domination
n e w  k i d s  o n  t h e  b l o c
pffff, no bloc in antarctica? / not a majority block then!
i admit that it kinda bumped my insistence on the majority block the last few weeks, but i really found it funny to stumble upon this post while opening reddit.
good game!
as a french-speaking canadian who lives in australia, the fleur-de-lys on our continent makes my heart swell with joy.
russia pq !!
go vote :)
we are coming and we are coming in waves
the whole world
the new jeb meme, i love it.
that's not what people have in mind when we talk about globalization
i feel like my riding is going to stay liberal.
yes n
xd
haha, there are those who dream big it seems!
fortunately.
good night, quebecers
from an volunteer
unfortunately i pinch my nose and i will vote liberal
man i wish u guys would just separate
[deleted]
10 more candidates for the ndp
minus 8 for the conservatives and the minority trudeau.
bernier will have 2 to 3 deputies.
like rené lévesque, another great man who drives drunk:  debriete-29870542d1ba353428b873095005394e
i don't know how much we want a former manager of eric lapointe, also accused of assault, to represent us.
majority rapist 😍😍😍🥳🥳🥳
majority liberal!
[removed]
english
i don’t speak fuckin baguette someone translate this shit
wow alot of french here
hes basically a dictatore that only cares about qubect not about the nation it self so fuk um
lmao this is the most retarded sub snd post i’ve ever seen. québec would be somalia if the canadian government stopped bailing your shitty economy out. we should have let you separate so the americans could have given you kirkland brand france an asss whooping
well the cheerleader team of the bloc brigade le sub again, it must be election day
didn't know there was a political map of hell.
anecdote :
i have often been bashed for no real reason pcq i am quebecois, whether it is by americans or english canadians. what is 100% funny in this is that you are chatting, people notice that you are quebecois and they start to crack you up on the subject. so you also answer with a few cracks and it always ends the same
"fucking frenchies, cant even take a fucking joke.  that's why we hate you"
and then you're like "wtf ..."
anecdote 2 :
otherwise, i play in a mainly english soccer league, we are the only french speaking team in the league .... damn, we get so disgusted only because we are french speaking. "fucking pepper, you cant even win a game, dont wonder why you dont have a country." "fucking frenchies go play with your own". the refs do nothing.
the worst part is that i am bilingual .... i speak english to anglos and french to franco, i don't mind a lot, but i get so sickened, because i am a franco.
anyway, that feels good and thanks for listening to my ted talk.
tldr : hate is bad
ps: i know that not all americans and anglos are like that, i have anglo and american friends.
me, as a french-speaking brazilian:
me, after 1-2 posts about quebec, in r / canada:
i'm from thunder bay and after several months on this reddit i feel like i'm going to be a bloc voter soon. i love quebeckers.
when you are interested in the story, there is no other conclusion.
as boubou put it so well:
* “whatever we say, whatever we do, quebec is, today and forever, a distinct society, free and capable of assuming its destiny and its development. "*
born in poland, grew up in ottawa to grade 4, then in hull to cegep and now in montreal since 2002. technically i am an allophone, but really like quebec because of it's euro flavour and underdog mentality. i have lived in mississauga for 3 odd years after cegep and it was boring, no soul. i don't vote liberal or pq, but caq and green federally. quebec is home.
[deleted]
i will never understand why there are non-separatist quebecers, but even less those who are canadian patriots. it is the battered woman syndrome at the societal level.
emperor palpatine meme.jpg
good good let the separatisme flow through you.
lol is my wife after a year in quebec!
hmmm yes, more but more slowly.
wooo! she's one of us!
nice
you could do the same for "after a year on r / canada" or "after 15 minutes on r / onguardforthee"
personally, i spent 3 years in banff and the opinion of qc labas is mixed, as much we pass for the best worker, whether it is catering, ski instructor, guide, or whatever but also that we are esti de soulon not bottom. the guy who hired me, told me who just hired quebeckers because banff is a crazy city and most of the world is not caoable to work when the next day, but we can't do it, next day not next day, at the end of the day. less you were sure that your whole team was going to be there !!!
i don't know if it's good, but for them, we are brush-headed warriors ... hahaha
it's crazy that she points out each measure adopted by quebec, the media coverage will be different between quebec and the roc. it's like this we could never do anything except that apparently steal the money of the aberta or make it coax for votes
i know i'm going to get low-voted but tempi. for me, it's almost the opposite. seeing the reactionary side of quebec on this sub was really not a positive experience. all the posts that are indignant at tweets from an unrelated professor, and all the posts that show comments from canadian subs who base quebec (often these comments have a bad ratio anyway) show that some people in quebec like feeling victimized. it can be funny at times, but for some it turns into an obsession.
tokebekicite
seriously get out of your house every now and then. the people who "bashent" quebec are a vocal minority. the majority of the roc world they don't mind (indifferent) or they are sympathetic. it may be a personal experience, but i still lived four years in another province and proportionally, i heard more often 《fuck ontarians / anglos》 here in quebec from people i know. that i've heard "fuck quebecers" in other provinces.
you are really delusional if you think that the negative comments towards quebecers represent the attitudes of the general population of the roc.
bring on the downvotes
canada and quebec are two spouses who hate each other in a forced marriage and everyone finds that normal.
may the spirit of hubert gagnon be with you!
i worked at the museum of civilization in gatineau for quite a while in the past and american visitors were fucking chill compared to the citizens of ottawa, say.
will always remember one day when i was talking to my colleague and an american gentleman had come to buy inuit soapstones (criss that tripples on inuit soapstones americans) and the gentleman was so dazzled that i was talking to my colleague in french and she spoke to me in english and everyone understood each other. he told us how he found it beautiful.
worse, that's bilingualism for me. we put so much emphasis on 'speaking' but so little on 'understanding'. if i could speak french to the english and they would answer me in english and vice versa ... it's so much easier to understand than to speak a language.
same but change the canadian flag for the albertan.
based and red-robbed.
long live the free quebec!!!!!
legit can be both, but always quebec first \^\^
you learn quickly i'm proud of you
lol :) i love your meme.
i am always a federalist and very proud to be a quebecer at the same time. i will be the first to defend the language and besides i find mtl pathetic at this level. law 101 and more! when will the fr be obligated for immigration?
i find this sub to be very corrosive and ** if ** people here have had an effect on me is to move further away from center-left than i could be.
i love!
let's go to the night country!
good boy
not me
lol, how to have easy karma here.
i can understand the fact of feeling closer to quebec ... but not the hatred towards canada ...
[deleted]
a true french canadian! / s
same.
thanks assholes. now you’re gonna give my dumb premier in alberta ideas.
intéressant because  going on this sub just makes me more federalist than anything
[deleted]
how did i get into this sub
that one
i'm american, and i speak french (but not very well). i try to speak french when i was in montreal, but i don't have a lot of confidence. but because i'm not canadian, i sometimes don't understand the problems between quebecers and english people. this sub is a window in the quebecois house for me, where i hear all the arguments.
it's funny i have always had super positive experiences with americans and not just in person. even online.
i even chatted with several americans who were nevertheless very sensitive to the cause of quebec.
it's really with the canadians that it shits.
[deleted]
it's not hate, it's racism.
> what is 100% funny in this is that you are chatting, people notice that you are quebecois and they start to crack you up on the subject
i am fairly bilingual with my "own accent" which is noticeable but which is almost impossible to define. i often have fun asking americans where they think i'm from just via my accent, and most have no idea and dabble in random states like nevada or oregon, until i reveal that i am quebecer. then the stereotypes of canada come out "haha i knew i heard canuck in there, aboot maple syrup eh? haha" and i'm like yes but these jokes don't apply too much to me, i'm french. worse it turns into "oh haha i knew i heard frog in there, yes yes baguette croissant haha!" and i'm like, it's french stereotypes please :(
i dream of the day when i will be appropriately stereotyped as a quebecer
[deleted]
pepper? i had never heard that one, what is the logic behind this name?
i am french speaking american. i was able to do studies and internships in france but i still dream of visiting quebec.
my ancestors lived in quebec, founded it, but they left it and we, my relatives and i, we don't know their history.
despite the beautiful times in france, i found it difficult to integrate myself. people often sobered up from my accent and switched to english. i couldn't even order a croissant without some criticism. exhausting.
i hope to meet in quebec less snobbish people, more tolerant with different accents but i expect that i will be a foreigner there again. stranger everywhere.
not serious ! i would love to visit there and learn its culture for real! this subreddit arouses my curiosity, makes me laugh even i am not aware of the context of some memes! thank you, dear quebecois memeurs!
ps: i'm not too much of a fan of french music… but i love quebec music!
#you knew it
it's perfect haha!
serious, there. almost 75% are vaccinated and external transmission is rare. being on the patios is the least i can do. enough is enough
it's even better than the vat typeface “il a neige en estie”.
ok. this is really funny!
old people and people at risk are vaccinated.
at this point, continuing to want to keep everything closed is to be an antivax which denies the effectiveness of the vaccine
yes, criss.
not bad not bad.
i’m sorry, “esti” is not coming up in google translate. i assume “esti...” is a longer word. what’s the joke?
la presse is finally saying out loud what we think in a whisper (not that low ...)
i'm ready -jean charest
thank you la presse; in a nutshell, you said what quebecers have been thinking for a long time, effectively. don't want to give a lesson for legault who has been in repeat mode for 1 year?
link?
ouahahaha! it's disgusting xd
here, take my upvote.
esti is therefore an abbreviation for estimation
perfectly cut notifications compilation
r/accidentaltopgear
he is
a motorola friend, the best cellphones
it makes me laugh to see that the same people who supported all these measures are now bawling to have them removed. did you really think that ringing all that power on governor mom was going to be okay?
surprisedpikachu.jpg
the deep press is against measures! they send signs
#y knew
bouuuuuu
indeed, even in a court the risk is "pa-ti-o".
just a small correction, it's more like almost 50% of the adult population of vaccinated and the rest are people with rdv taken which make up almost 75%.
that being said, i totally agree that you really have to relax a lot of rules including the curfew because it starts to be really heavy on the morale all that. mental health is also important! looking forward to seeing what the government announces tomorrow.
yes to patios and yards, but use the right stats.
- 1ere dose : 49%
- vaccinated (2 doses): 2.9%
it makes sense to open the terraces and allow people to see each other outside because the transmission rate is low.
still, it would still be necessary to maintain the distance.
i often read in the comments that exterior transmission is rare. knowing that it is impossible to use the statistics produced by the surveys of people who have contracted it, is it therefore scientifically proven that covid19 is hardly transmitted outside?
if anyone can get me the scientific facts about it please!
otherwise it is probably a very bad interpretation of the population.
they weren't wrong.
i heard last year that it was a fake. it broke my heart. was it true after all?
we are all at risk ... i don't want to take a variant or have long-term problems related to covid (10%).
let's stop thinking it's just a risk of death. we can, on the other hand, trust science and de-confirm according to controlled risks.
not fully vaccinated. only 2.9% received the second dose.
esti is a quebec swear word derived from hostie (sacramental bread). it has no direct translation in english because our swear words are all derived from catholic words (criss = christ, tabarnak = tabernacle, etc). it could be translated to something like ''yes, damn it.''
just to make sure you got the whole of it. the actual full title is something like *sécuritaire, la réouverture des terrasses? oui, estiment les experts* (safe, the reopening of the terraces? yes, estimate experts), but the screenshot has it shorted to *esti*, which is a quebec swear word, as other have said, so it would now translate to: safe the reopening of the terraces? yes, god damn it!
be!
the title has been truncated in just the right place. the full title is ... yes, experts say. or something like that.
the rest of the sentence was say the experts
this is the worst lie i read today on reddit ... i believe.
the qcanon saga debuts.
congratulations! your daddy since when?
dad energy
i love
i had never noticed that patio = not so high if you say it slowly, aja!
we can therefore reach it ...
rendered on may 28 (when the land will open) we will be close to 75% vaccinated at least
it's actually almost 50% of the total population, not the adult population! ~~ which already gives about 75% of the adult population. ~~
sources [1] ( [2] (
edit: although it is true that legault just tweeted that it is 75% of adults who received a first dose or made an appointment, so i do not know the square of "progress of the objective" on vaccintrackerqc takes how is finally calculated
edit2: but at the same time [on the dashboard a christian dubé on twitter] ( it looks a lot like 75% of the goal achieved 🤷‍♂️
yes yes
haha thank you. soon i too will be able to swear in quebec.
thank you!
the importance of the strike is based on the quality of education received by young people. we are no longer able to provide a good education for our young people. we are no longer able to give them the chance to have a promising future.
regular classes are left in the dustbin of the education system. there is a huge selection: the good and rich students in the private sector, the less wealthy students but with parents aware of particular programs such as inter or sports-studies, and in the end, the rest, young people without parents, or with parents without means, go in the regular.
in a regular with classes with 50% adhd, behavioral disorder, etc. the other 50% is taken hostage by young people who are incessantly disturbing.
it is we, the teachers on strike, who know the problems and the solutions to the education system. we are the ones who know when the employer's offer is good or not. it is we who, sigh, must call strikes and hold the population hostage, because the government is not listening to us.
we just want to give our young people a chance ...
the government: haha it's our heroes the teachers! the same government: hey, we are going to offer them increases below inflation to thank them for their dedication to implementing our marde measures which they learn in the press briefings at the same time as everyone else!
not relevant but interesting: to be precise, this plywood had, in quebec, more than 400% of increase ... at canac last week and the guy with the materials and a contractor were discussing. last july, a 4x8 sheet of plywood retailed for around $ 13. today it's around $ 53 ...
the educators in cpe we should have joined in solidarity ... our salary is ridiculous.
from a somewhat angry specialist educator.
if she can afford some nice wood too, she doesn't complain about her salary !! / s
excellent haha!
go back to legault's election promises regarding teachers' salaries if you like black humor.
\*plywood
the teaching profession is a constant challenge. starting with the huge classrooms, the educational policies that put a chord around your neck and in addition to having to manage parents who do not mind their own affairs. to say that teachers receive good salaries in 2020 is absurd. it has become almost impossible for a teacher in his twenties to buy a house, find yourself a rich boyfriend for that. in short, being a teacher is a calling because it really is just too much work, even long before covid.
come the month of march 2020 when chaos has started and well-being has become more important than pedagogy and teaching has become a farce. i look at what is happening in education in canada and it is heartbreaking. i fear for the first and second year students who come from underprivileged backgrounds who may have received less than 3 months of education for over a year.
before covid, the gap between the rich and the poor is already getting harder. we have to do something for the children. change education to take into account the reality of a pandemic. it is not the teachers who can make the change, we are still trying to pick up all the mess caused by the pandemic. better salaries, better tools, clear direction, help for teachers, tutors and please quality computers for all teachers and students, compulsory internet fiber for online schools. have a class of 25 with 19 students who roll on less than 3 mb down and 0.05 mb up ... let's go the gang, 4 hours of video per day !!!! woo woo!
i stop there, i lost control that's clear.
teachers must stop making small, small strikes. going on strike "until 9:30 am" is useless. bluntly blocking a semester, that has a major impact. and we must overcome the fear of an illegal strike. if all the teachers do it, there is little the government can do. yes, it would possibly have an impact on the students. but you can't make omelets without breaking eggs.
it is not for nothing that construction workers have good working conditions; without robust strikes, construction would still be an underpaid and (too) dangerous field.
it is a pervasive problem in the public service. wages under inflation, rigidity, punitive measures. there are still sectors where they do not recognize the experience in hiring. and if you leave after 15 years and want to come back, bin start again at 0 my creton!
i wish them good luck and support them with all my heart! health and education are so important, employees really deserve better treatment than they have been receiving for far too long.
it is really good.
the government really needs to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. yes, we have seen some improvements in the system, but the basis of this whole pyramid rests on our teachers and they are not asking for the moon!
i am wholeheartedly with them.
i myself am a professor, at cegep, in natural sciences. so technically, i have the students who are successful, who are calm, hardworking ... and despite that, i can end the day crying, do overtime or end and i find that i lack the resources for all of them. special cases to manage, the number of students to support, etc.
so i don't even want to imagine those who have less '' good '' conditions than me.
why are they on strike?
big support for the teachers, without them we would all be conspiratorialists qanon hahaha
criss that wood can be bought
i intended to take my children to the picket line, but montreal is not on strike ...
i wanted to take the opportunity to explain the working relationships to them ...
i no longer remember what fool of an education minister said that bringing children to the picket line is irresponsible (it seems to me that he was a liberal ... which is not surprising for a party that prefers the 'ignoring...). it seems to me that this is the best way to explain to them how the company works ...
if i understand correctly they want plywood to cost less? i approve!
👌
beyond the demands and demands of the teachers, i find that this “sign” and this message are really original and fabulous.
wholeheartedly with the teachers, ultra-grateful for the herculean work, but ...
currently our young people are "hungry" on one side and the other with the pandemic.
face-to-face, teams, face-to-face without mask, face-to-face with mask, face-to-face with mask except at recess ........... they have a hard time following, and although super malleable, there are some who suffer of the situation with covid. there is no structure, no routine, and in order for a youngster to feel safe and as less stressed as possible, routine is ultra important.
we have just come back from a weird winter with the courses on teams, it has turned our schedules upside down, some of us have to bring the flos to work, which is no longer possible with the ostis of "bubbles". they go back to face-to-face, start to have a semblance of normality again ............ and the poof, the strike (yes, i concede it, just one morning), but it's like a suckerpunch and worse it is pocket-friendly for young people, and also for parents who do not always have the means of a babysitter.
my daughter can't even go to her friends' house during the day because of the paranoid parents with the distancing.
it's really super complex situation and ugly on both sides, but the timing is really, really bad. especially psychologically for our foams.
[deleted]
quebec: elected a right-wing government
government: cut in education and health
québec: \*~~shocked pikachu~~\*
\ * surprised pikachu \ *
as a civil servant in the same government, i would pop the solid chhampagne if i had a 5% increase ... i encourage the teachers anyway, and the gag is not bad.
i send my support from nova scotia
* heille listen to me, captain gyproc *
same
is that lea strelisky?
pre covid,  after 15 years, a quebec teacher earns $79,466 annually compared with $79,872 in new brunswick, $97,474 in ontario and $82,600 in british columbia. suggestiong.......just tie collective agreements numbers to a formula based on regional inflation, in any way. stop setting fixed values for benefits, wages and deductions. ie. take the lowest paid teachers entry level hourly wage as the constant "t". t=19$/hr for 1800hrs. average 15 yr teacher is paid 2.33xt or $43.77 . inflation in 2020 goes up 2.3%, t goes up 2.3%. base all numbers off of t, from expense accounts to home office equipment, whatever. if the economy falls, so do teachers salaries. if it explodes......so do teachers salaries. no more unfairness ever.
cringe
plywood is the baloney of wood.
not many people got 5%
normally it would have been super cool but here, with the huge deficit due to the covid, i have the impression that it would be unwise to spend more
someone alternative to wood for a roof terrace?
everything is beautiful but at the end of the day those who are really touched are the students and we do nothing about it!
not a salary increase but an increase in the quality of teaching. it is true that there are teachers who do more than what is asked but there is another large majority who comply with following the teaching plan and nothing else ...
but the pkywood does not have 3 months of vacation and all kinds of benefits ..... cry with a full stomach!
i thought the current salary scales already had indexation based on years of service. the 5% seems to me is an increase in addition to the indexation already included in this scale? can someone correct me if i am wrong.
not that i am against the increase, but it seems to me that reducing the increase to just 5% more than the base increase already planned is misleading people.
what will she write when the plywood goes down?
i considered myself lucky to have a 5% increase regardless of my performance with a pension plan indexed to the cost of living after 30 years of service.
oops, i just realized this was a circle jerk on the poor fate of government workers. i leave you alone. / s
[deleted]
> good and wealthy students in the private sector, less wealthy students but with parents aware of specific programs such as inter-school or sports studies, and in the end, the rest, young people without parents, or with parents without means, go in the regular.
for having had my high school education in a private college (ranked top 3 in quebec, at least when i was there in the late 90s and early 2000s), and then a mother who went to teach at that same college once i was graduated, i can tell you that even the private sector is in severe decline ...
my mother had at least a third of all her classes occupied by students with behavioral and / or learning problems. adhd, autism, opposition disorder, etc. there was even a case of juvenile prostitution ...
she had to improvise as a remedial teacher because she just couldn't teach her subject as she should. it is not because it is in the private sector that this kind of resources were more available than elsewhere ...
a few years earlier when i was a student this was not the case. didn't you have what it took to perform? you were getting kicked out. did you get caught with a gram of pot? outside too. there were at least 4-5 by degrees who did not finish the school year and transferred to a high school.
my mother fought to put "problem" students out (often more because of the parents than the child himself ...), but in vain. management explanation: paradigm shift; we no longer make a selection like that. "we must especially not seem too elitist, because we risk having our subsidies cut"
i have friends with kids in special public programs, and i can tell you they get a better education than they would have if they had been to where their dad and i went ...
it's in the other extreme as well. i am fast enough to understand in class, but even in the myp program in a private school it does not go fast enough for my taste. my ideal would be for me to be able to choose where to spend time. for example, being able to revise a certain grammar rule that i do not know well instead of revising secondary 1 math.
i'm really asking out of curiosity, how are the requests you make going to help with the issues you raise? will having a bigger pay rise change anything? what is the relationship between the increase in a plywood board (supply and demand) and the salary of a teacher?
i am aware that the teachers do a difficult job, i would surely not be able to do what you are doing. now, what is the salary that an average teacher should have in quebec in 2021? can you come up with stats that compare your salaries and conditions with the rest of teachers at the same level in the rest of canada (cities with roughly the same cost of living)? it's that kind of information that's going to put the public behind you, not blocking the streets.
what impact has the covid crisis had on your salary? have you worked so hard this year with all the school closings? what proportion of the budget should the government devote to teachers compared to companies or workers who are struggling? should we give to teachers or nurses? should we invest in the health system or in the salaries of teachers?
in my opinion, while you probably deserve better, this is not the best time to go on strike.
you can now start to downvote.
the goal of elementary and secondary school is to triage for the post secondary and to babysit the children for days. nothing else.
> in a regular with classes with 50% adhd, behavioral disorder, etc. the other 50% is taken hostage by young people who are incessantly disturbing.
the level and the progression are so low that it is extremely easy to progress in the regular. the secondary would be done easily in 50% of the current time.
> it is we, the teachers on strike, who know the problems and solutions to the education system.
lol you want more money. nobody is going to be put to sleep by your "concerns", it is a negotiation of convention ...
> we just want to give our young people a chance ...
we just want you to show up for work, let the rest go.
this applies to all jobs that are "vocation" and by the same token, predominantly female. allo the nurses !!!
[deleted]
i think some people don't understand that an increase under inflation is practically the same as a decrease in salary ...
okay, so already if you compare the energy sources of the two vehicles, you should also take into account the polluting emissions of the refining and processing of petroleum.
afterwards, old coal-fired power stations have an energy efficiency of around 30% (30% of the thermal energy generated by the fuel is transformed into electrical energy). a modern, gas-fired, combined cycle power plant reaches 65%. an electric car is 95% fuel efficient. we therefore end up with an overall energy efficiency of 28 to 60% from the thermal power station to the wheels of an electric car.
for its part, a gasoline car typically has an efficiency of around 10% or even 15% for diesel engines. 10% of the thermal energy of the fuel is transformed into mechanical energy.
so
even with an old coal-fired power plant, the power plant-electric car combination is more fuel efficient than the gasoline car, even before counting the energy losses from petroleum refining.
"it doesn't change anything" is a myth.
basically, even if your energy comes from coal, the efficiency of a power station is much higher than the efficiency of an automobile combustion engine.
basically: 1000 small engines that burn fuel is really less clean than 1 gigabyte engine that burns fuel.
you have to start somewhere, right?
he's all alone in his car, that's the problem.
much more important is the number of automobiles and the development dependent on the automobile. better to live in verdun or petite patre and not need a car for 95% of your needs and use gas or diesel carsharing 2-3 times a month rather than living in brossard and having two electric cars than you use for everything, including going to the convenience store (in terms of environmental impact).
we would need nuclear power. cleaner than coal and more reliable than other “green” resources. but people are still traumatized (wrongly) by chernobyl and the disaster movies.
third link, a green project!
/s
by the way the original comic obviously it's anti-ev propaganda, surely a gas company paid the guy $ 100 to draw a picture. me, i like electric vehicles and it's just a joke. but i like the discussion it creates!
transport
on
common
et r/fuckcars
i have the impression that the first image may be missing an oil field, and refinery.
it's not complicated, you have to reduce. it's not having tanks that pollute less that will solve everything, it's having less tanks full stop! the capitalist system of consumption is not functioning and is unsustainable. but nobody wants to hear that because it involves sacrifices.
whatever
the problem is a total lack of efficient public transport in the province of quebec (* except * montreal of course).
the ev is starting to take off, r&d will make batteries more powerful, lasting better and less dependent on lithium.
just like our gasoline vehicles are more and more efficient and consume less gasoline than the models of the years 50-70.
and the big bias of this same is that its implication that the big power plant is used to power a single vehicle, in reality, a single plant as we see could surely power all the evs on the planet .... .
nuclear power is pretty clean for me.
a simple and effective solution: reduce your consumption in general.
you are in the pot, a car that burns gasoline is not comparable to an electric plant that burns natural gas or fuel oil. these gigantic factories work tirelessly to maximize their fuel efficiency, while your gas car is never more efficient than when it's new. so much so that a factory that burns oil to make electricity that must be transported to the battery of your electric car, it is * still more energy efficient *.
the last time i saw data, there were only a few states in the united states where the energy is not clean enough (because of coal) for its to make a difference.
but for every wind turbine, every solar panel that is added to their grids, electric cars get cleaner.
in the end, a tank engine is not as efficient as a big factory, worse for each wind turbine or panel added to the network of the 10-15 years of the car's life, it makes the car greener.
the solution is not a pentoute tank, without wanting to be flat.
i think another aspect of the question is also:
"i'm changing my perfectly functional gasoline car" for a "new electric car".
like, if your tank is scrap, fine changes, but if not, the best thing you can do for the environment is to use up your stock until you have to change it (and that doesn't just include auto).
but i have no stats to prove it, so educate me if i am wrong :)
the best option is, however, trains and trams. the infrastructure for cars is far worse for the environment than that of public transport.
the real solution is to keep our used vehicles and maintain them. and not to buy a new vehicle.
it’s also about economy of scale. a gas engine is less efficient than a power plant. irrelevant argument for the dumbest of people
nuclear stations are among the cleanest sources at the ghg level. also, it is not because we have clean energy in quebec that we should not continue to reduce other sources of emissions. this post sucks.
even in quebec, that doesn't change the problem.
we need to make a transition to one that is not dependent on personal cars, whether electric or gasoline.
how about you stop selling all that green energy to the us and get all of atlantic canada 100% renewable? that would be nice.
dedicate have a show that covers the topic (2019).
it takes about 85,000 km or more before the electric car has an impact on our health.
it is indeed not the greatest source of ghgs.
you have to look at our farming methods, the liners, not to mention all the waste / pollution, etc.
north america and europe have reduced their ghg emissions in recent years, the problem comes from emerging countries (china, india, africa). the people of these countries are discovering the luxuries and privileges of the middle class, which we have had for over 60 years.
example: a woman in an emerging country takes the bus every day to save money to buy a vehicle for $ 5,000, her dream. now that she has saved enough, the rich countries tell her; '' you shouldn't buy her, save again to buy a $ 25,000 electric vehicle ''
you can now understand the reluctance of the woman. so maybe in 50 years we'll have a beautiful planet.
i have heard of green liquid hydrogen. a product that could replace gasoline in the future depending on future developments in technology.
diesels polute a lot less than gas cars
what do you think of nuclear energy
the ghgs are produced in large part by large corporations !!!
wait, who's buying what these corporations produce? the people? fuck, i can't just blame the big companies anymore ....
also quebec ...
it's an oil boat on the st laurence
it definitely changes the problem. the one and only way to reduce co2 to 0 is for both transport and electricity production to be green. by having electric cars, now you just have a few power plant changed to be green. if we did not have an electric car, even if we have green power plants, we will not reach 0 anyway because of transport. it is a problem which requires the 2 solutions (among others). worse, before having implemented 2 solutions, you must start with 1.
it comes from big corporations because we always want to consume more
well look at that, the most uninformed / ignorant opinion of the week!
especially since your meme contains two nuclear cooling towers that seem to spit ghgs, while it is completely wrong and ridiculous to imply that. it is literally water vapor.
"that changes nothing"
thanks for your boomer meme with data to support your point.
well they even have to stop exploiting children and underpaid workers in congo to extract coltan and lithium if they want me to be convinced
"i have an electric tank! the pollution problem will be solved, youpidou!" meanwhile on the water
>it has been estimated that just one of these container ships, the length of around six football pitches, can produce the same amount of pollution as 50 million cars. the emissions from 15 of these mega-ships match those from all the cars in the world. and if the shipping industry were a country, it would be ranked between germany and japan as the sixth-largest contributor to co2 emissions.
[
stop complaining and pissing people off about things that ultimately change nothing, and tackle the real problems. with that, i'm going to eat a big fucking steak.
people of the country,
hydro is cheap,
and he is clean, en, osti
the worst part about it is that we already have the solution. nuclear. except that because of chernobyl there is not a politician who will push for this solution.
the big smog and the disgusting air in downtown jdirais is largely caused by the vehicles that circulate there and not the power stations. when i try to be full green and environmental by bicycle to get to work, i enjoy beautiful emissions for 90% of my trip. a problem that other road users do not have to face when it comes to electric cars.
then we talk about electric batteries and recycling ... but are they telling me that all the oils and liquids consumed and thrown away, all the gasoline that must be subsidized (from extraction, to refinery and transportation) because of our dependence, and all auto dumps cause less pollution? maintenance and all the parts that need to be replaced, where are all that going !? i'm pretty sure there is a lot more wear and replacement on a combustion system than an electrical system. so over 300k km are all these factors compared?
in canada we have almost more coal plants, and there are just 4 provinces at the moment (and we agree that new brunswick, nova scotia and saskatchewan are not going to be the biggest polluters in our country. ... alberta we will come back lol); most of them will be phased out within the next decade and we agree that the adoption of electric vehicles is more focused on urban centers than rural regions. we can therefore deduce that the energy source to charge most electric vehicles in the country will not be coal.
an interesting video discussing this issue [ marge(
bc too
holy shit. 🤦‍♂️
so see you on the bike path? 100% green, 100% economical (well, maybe you will eat a second plate), and in the long term that should solve a good part of the problems of the health network. in addition, you skip the traffic ...
mmmmh, hydro. nothing like that filthy sand. i hate sand
lmao
british columbia🤜🤛quebec
                        hydro power
question like that, because it's been a few years since i paid attention (because for the moment i'm too poor to buy a new tank). has the problem of pollution by leaching metal ions from mining waste into the environment finally been resolved for the production of electric vehicle batteries?
water
it's a dumb comic anyway cause most people pushing for electric cars are also the same people pushing for sustainable energies like solar, wind, and hydro power.
the bird! 👌
edit: what does it take as a filter?
i had put my dial at 5 o'clock to take advantage of the eclipse too, but as it was too cloudy at home, i went back to bed, telling myself that there would surely be a good samaritan like op to publish a better photo than me :)
and as in fact, your photo is beautiful!
ooh! please share with those who got up a little too late 😄
wow! it's really beautiful and with the bird!
beautiful photo! i took the opportunity to go out with the kids to show them their first eclipse with the right shoebox.
nice! i forgot to get up.
fake, the clouds are behind the sun / s
where did you take the picture from?
gorgeous
oh no!!! i missed it. but it's absolutely amazing as a photo. well done.
i suffer from an extreme case of sleep apnea and insomnia. i couldn't sleep all night, but at least i thought i would finally have the chance to see an eclipse for the first time.
5:15 am, not yet asleep, i set an alarm in half an hour just in case ... i find a way to fall asleep for an hour, miss the alarm and suddenly the eclipse. finally i get up completely unhooked from another late night, facing another day of ass to go through as usual.
once again, i tell myself that i might as well have spent the night up. i probably would have been more awake and wouldn't have missed the eclipse ...
i got up 5min before the dark peak, we watched it 10min with the goggles. it was my first, really beautiful and it was cool that changed these last days. thanks to whoever posted on reddit last week !!
there were about a hundred of us at the mont royal belvedere, it was really cool.
on the other hand, i saw a lot of people looking at the eclipse with their sunglasses. rip their eyes. personally, i had recovered my glasses through the planetarium which distributed them for free!
wow that's a really nice shot.
beautiful!
i've seen lots of #ffffff in my life, but i still feel like i'm blinded by your photo 😂
but seriously, she's hot. i would see her as a winning submission on glossy photo magazine
sick! me like a thick man, i forgot why i set an alarm, i went back to bed hahaha
a sign of islam in the sky !!
(it's a joke)
wow! good job man! i saw nothing me :(
oh no i missed it!
so beautiful this photo! 😍👏
wow! superb shot. with the clouds "on top", it feels really special, like there is a hole in the sky.
such a beautiful photo!
absolutely stunning 😍
wow
shit. this is a screenshot of a ps5 game! lol without joke it's really excellent!
excellent! 🌞
sick!!!! beautiful picture! :)
it looks like a painted image or straight out of a game, your photo is sick 👌
the clouds really add depth! and with the bird on top of that. beautiful picture!
thanks for the picture ..., and for getting up early around 5:00 am isn't it?
i offer you iaiiii croissants of the sun for lunch! nice photo, thank you for getting up early and sharing your work!
you know what they say: "the future belongs to those who wash themselves early, leave there hot water"
wow it was worth it bravo!
woah super photo!!! 👌
thanks for sharing.
[deleted]
brilliant, clear, vivid!
damn this is pretty epic. i was up and had my glasses on but i completely forgot the date haha so i missed it. your photo is so beautiful that it more than compensates!
beautiful picture!
i went to the promontory of the mont-royal chalet, there were at least a hundred people! i didn't take great photos (my camera is a point-and-shoot nikon with no manual focus and exposure control ...) but it was still a very cool experience. i will recover in 2024 with better equipment!
in montreal there was a cloud placed exactly 4 degrees above the horizon so we could see the sun before and after the maximum occultation but the best 10 minutes were hidden ....
the moon sun
wtf i didn't even know that there was an eclipse
thanks to everyone for the great comments and the awards :)
fuck off frenchie
photoshop?
i didn't put a filter, because the clouds obscured the light enough to save my sensor. so, i just closed my diaphragm to the max, put the shortest exposure time and put my iso on the floor.
i still had my nd1000 ready if it came off and i turned the camera away from time to time to let it cool down between 2 sets.
i naturally woke up around 5:20 am. i said to myself "hmm, great opportunity, i could ... naaaah ... zzzz".
hey hey :)
thanks
i had put an alarm on my calendar last month. see you in the morning, nothing more on my calendar .. wtf
it's nice: d
he's an old grandmother, but he's looking outside!
finally, the reason why there are people who complain so much against the curfew is because it is a measure that is difficult to not respect. visiting friends is easy, after all the police don't know where you live so if they see you walking in somewhere they won't bother you. but the curfew bah it's hard to escape, if you walk in the evening you will be questioned.
what i mean is that even though i know that i am not speaking for everyone, i think that the world is grieving intensely against this measure in particular because the others could ignore them without taking any risks, but not this one. .
at worst, you just have to find evening jobs in restaurants! you get paid and you have your walking allowed when you get home.
it is not to save small businesses, it is to save themselves.
ok, it's like two guys who smashed all the windows, the same as every time there are thugs in a crowd. it's not a kind of carnival where everyone takes part in the junkyard as a collective fun activity.
i think this is really a deplorable situation and i do not agree with these acts. however, the protest for the curfew and the far-fetched sanitary measures of the caq is completely legitimate.
i believe there will always be people who will take advantage of any type of movement / demonstration to cause mayhem without supporting the movement itself.
we must stop reducing these movements or thousands of good people got up to speak for all, against perhaps a tenth of people in this group who are responsible for the mayhem.
once again, i do not agree with the mayhem to demonstrate but look at the damage that was done to the stanley cup, here we are talking about our rights and freedoms ...
it is not false!
all because of francis legault
funny how authoritarians suddenly pretend they care about the little ones. 2 years closed is a lot more damaging than a window broken by a thug reimbursed by the insurance.
we are so exactly in the same dynamic as in 2012. québécor is doing 2 days in a row with a window broken by a cellar which has just taken advantage of the opportunity.
at each demonstration there are thugs, at each demonstration there are ill-intentioned people and at each demonstration there are civilian police officers who cause and lead chaos to justify breaking up the demonstration.
it comes with it, it will never change. it's boring, but that's how it is. stop sharing this kind of post, you are helping to reduce the message of the demonstrations while 99% of the demonstrators are demonstrating well.
it's interesting how the tone of popular posts and comments changes between afternoon and evening.
in the afternoon, the freedom knights upvot each other and in the evening they get picked up.
it’s not scientific at all as an observation, but i’ve noticed it a few times.
sad, but true ...
idk what this means, but yes
glass breakers don't ask why everyone is protesting. it's just a good opportunity for them to fart without getting banged.
like you would have a demonstration against vandalization that you would still have 3-4 imbeciles who would break windows ...
bah, it is the quebec attitude all spat; we "suggest" restrictions, and if they are not respected, well we do not do much, we say; "ah well, that's not good ... we must not do that!", nothing more. we do not increase the deployment of police forces, we do not increase the cost of fines, we do not give clear directives regarding sanitary measures / restrictions. legault prefers to use "soft" threats like, "your grandmother is going to die if you see your friends, if you don't play by the rules!" or give arbitrary "end of restrictions" dates as fuck, which are never met anyway. it is clear that the population has had enough. i understand why they don't want to be too strict, but this has the opposite effect, given the lack of rigidity, people fill in the holes with what they want, say to themselves "ah, that's not too serious". a soft government gives rise to soft esti people. fucking mollassons, i'm sick of legault and his chalices of mard press points where he tells us it's "really very serious, there" with his condescending / moralizing tone, nobody needs that. if you say it's serious, then make sure you act and manage it.
tl; dr - the government of quebec is mou af
adults in adolescent crisis
woah, i admit it is good.
those who vandalized have nothing to do with the protest. hold a pro-containment demonstration tomorrow and if you catch the thugs you'll see they're pretty much the same people.
i feel validated as a canadian for remembering enough french to read this meme.
the destruction at the old port had nothing to do with business. come on!
it's not the same quebecois without an orthaugrafe / s fault
worse to say that it complains that the sub is full of the same “pockets”.
gang of no souls. this is 👌🏼.
is the world a stooge on this subreddit
when "saving small businesses" became more important than saving lives and the health system that supports everyone ...
jdis its but jdis nothing .... its still working for blm: s
c cave bin raide
you say that like you expected something more logical from the "germs aren't real because i can't see them" crowd.
\ * that we want
something i don't understand. can we just say that sunday night's violence was unacceptable without getting into the curfew debate? it turns me off 'yes but' answers.
fuck the frl shops
yup. #preach
mental health has a broad back ...
for those who don't understand, it's a deliberately poorly translated star wars quote: "it's an older code sir, but it checks out."
it reminds me of r / rance
tabarnaque lolll. m'as dead.
ding ding ding !!! we’ve got a winner here!
the purpose of the curfew is to simplify the punishment of offenders. you're in the street after the scheduled time for no reason, there's a ticket, thank you good evening. no foolishness, quite a bit of bypassing and stubbornness in the short.
now, for those who have not understood the 8:00 pm vs 9:30 pm, it's pretty simple: suppers and alcohol consumption. really more difficult to go to supper at ginette and gérard's, stretch the digestive and come back in time for curfew if it is earlier. if the measure minimizes gatherings, it's worth it. we will have noticed that the 8:00 p.m. allows restaurants to take out for the vast majority of the supper rush in quebec, allowing restaurants already badly banged up to breathe a little.
“well there! schools and businesses have more outbreaks. pkoi don't we close them? ” thank you keveune for your good question. the goal is not to have 0 outbreaks, the goal is to have a society that is as functional as possible with the fewest possible outbreaks. anyone who has children or colleagues with children knows that you cannot work with toddlers taken at home even in wfh. sending them to school is essential to have a minimum of viable savings. there are a lot of people who say that we will have to learn to live with the covid. you know what? this is what we are doing currently. it’s not beautiful that damn motherfucker.
"pkoi we are not closing all, yen will have no more cases." we know today, following the spring of 2020, that it will not reduce us to 0. we are simply not able to isolate the province or the country. it would serve above all to scrap our weakened economy for a limited reduction in the cases that we would regain at the next opening.
we bet on the vaccine for the elderly, telling ourselves that it would reduce hospitalizations, but we were fooled by the variants that increase the hospitalizations of younger groups.
so the game here is to play cruise control. we weigh a little on the brake when the cases go up (new measures, change of hours) and we release when it goes down (opening of restaurants). no crunching brake udder start at the fast and furious there. we're aiming for steady. worse yes, we are a couple to suffer, but the majority works. i know it's not perfect and there are definitely some places / situations where people abuse both ways. let's stay civil, think of others and each do our part. i love you everyone, sorry if i sound pissed off, take care and good night.
we have a winner here. even young adults on / r / quebec who have said that the curfew is useful as a measure to restrict social gatherings at night say that "it doesn't make any difference" and that the world sees itself as the same.
they gave away 1500 tickets on the weekend and if you cheat you expose yourself to one when before curfew you could cheat in peace. so yes, that does make a difference.
the speed limits on the highway don't change anything until we get kicked.
yep, it's been a while i say it. everyone was screaming at the ban on gatherings because many gathered the same. the fact that quite a few have started yelling with the curfew seems to me proof in itself that it works at least a little.
worse, the liberty gang are never in other publications where we talk about authoritarian excesses of the government (surveillance of any kind, dragnet, government powers) so when i see them shouting against the dictatorship i have a hard time not roll your eyes, let's say.
it depends, my boyfriend and i are self-employed and we have atypical schedules, but we cannot have a work ticket precisely because we are self-employed. the curfew at 9:30 am, even if i am ideologically against it, i will not wave because i can do what i have to do (grocery store, pharmacy, small market etc), but when it is going down at 8am creates serious problems for us and we are often taken aback. it's not great to live in constant stress that we won't be back in time, we've already lost a lot and we can't pay $ 1,500
not everyone who likes to be told what to do
> they could ignore them without taking any risks, but not this one.
pentoute. in the evening it's the only time i have to do my hobby, tank rides, we could do what with our life by respecting the measures. but the even more measure pi mentally it is really shit.
at least 9:30 am was okay and with the summer weather it would be a lot better. what's the difference of 1:30 in another area? why are there different curfews? i just find it stupid that legault provides no explanation and everyone says it's correct.
shit, excellent point.
your argument deserves more visibility. measures like curfews and masks outside are measures that facilitate the crackdown on violators of health rules, it's just that daddy can't go out at 5 p.m. and say '' we're increasing the police repression ''.
i am not taking this post to say that i am for or against it but it is the only 'logical' explanation that i have found to date.
i'm not saying that there isn't a part of reality in your assertion but as a person who often goes out after curfew (to pick up my kid at job there) i realize that more and more people are starting to take it easy. i see more and more cars and more and more groups of young people walking or strolling.
honestly, i think that it was a big mistake to make it go from 9:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., the last straw. already that it is limit in criss like measure: one flouts a fundamental right guaranteed by the charter with something which does not even have solid scientific proof. i understand the spirit of the measure but objectively apart from circumstantial evidence or questionable causal links it is not very strong, not enough for a "war" measure like a curfew. there is even less evidence on the effectiveness of reducing it by 1.5 hours ...
i agree but i think that only explains part of the problem. it's a spanking measure when you can't even go out and just take a walk. keven pi steve can't have their pickup party but gaëtan isn't able to take his 9am market which has been taking every night for 30 years either.
nooo stop!
yeah but by spanking that they put themselves more at risk of getting sick so they do the opposite than to "save" themselves
here is. made to fight for the right ~~ to exist ~~ to live and there are some who find a way to spit on them.
edit: i have clarified my thinking. i didn't think it would be necessary but there are a lot of fru people.
[deleted]
absolutely agree . as in anything we often have a minority of large settlers. but in this case i have the impression of having such a noisy minority that one would think a majority. i have been on the measurement side from the start except i find the curfew ridiculous.
good prediction. lol
i remember this comic there! if you weren't listening to the teacher, they'd send you to your closet.
of course veronica had a big wardrobe crunch with tv pi all in her rich house so it didn't bother her with the detentions.
pi i think she was putting a mannequin with a wig in front of the camera to pretend she was attending court.
i remember i read high school archies like a big nerd. the good times.
it's amazing in the first box they even predicted the frozen poutine.
on facebook many people did not notice that there is the big brother logo (1984) and a warning next to the camera
i opened the image and caught a scent of my old archies ... not just me who thought the pages had their own particular smell?
as accurate as the simpsons.
man, fuck the simpsons. it's archie who calls the shots
r / agedlikewine wow this comic is super old
spoopy.
in the context of comics, does that mean to be a good or a bad thing?
holy
shit
it wasn't really a class, she skip school for her onlyfans ..
wha t. that's a simpsons level prediction.
nostradamus
so archie created the covid-19! open your eyes sheep !! / s
it was a tweet from archie today: 
illuminati! confirmed! haha
wow
when is it published?
no fucking way.
beyond the incredible.
incredible from incredible home.
😭😭😭 
be careful what you wish for...
this comic aged quite well honestly.
do simpsons writers make archies on-the-side?
wow
lack just the dress style .....
but the clock is analog. shameful.
...wow
i recognize myself within 20 seconds wide
we can safely assume that the artist has the time stone.
and that's it all was planned, it's a plot from the start.
what luck"
i might be wrong but it looks fake (not just the text let's say) (more because of the quality of the photo than anything else)
excellent! and when does it date?
we want to know the year of publication !?
there is a case that i never understood from the archies: how can the same comic be badly drawn the same way for decades ??
c1 con plot mais queue fai la praisse?
xd
incredible .. very precise ...
well let's see, it's like the simpsons
the flying tanks in the background anyway
> pi i think she was putting a model with a wig in front of the camera to pretend she was attending court.
that is the most accurate prediction.
betty cooper, mon premier crush
in france we had to wait for the netflix version to discover this comic book.
and the laundry! fashion was perfectly predicted, with the mother's toilet seat collar, and betty's dress with her t-bone steak design. it's spot on.
knowing that most were in the bathroom is normal
it must come from the asbestos dust used at the time for the retention of colors in case of humidity, it was relatively volatile so it gave off a slight odor
what is funny pcq there was just a case in the usa where we took photos / videos of the students using the webcam to make sure that they did not consume drugs ...
on the contrary, except for the monitor are not bad on it i think!
i dunno lol, what do you think?
look at the eye at the top right of the last box.
facebook this 1997
and the "not my fucking job" award goes to....
source:
i actually wanted to make halloween costumes of cones for the kids last year.
r/notmyjob
quality shitpost
they must also have saved quite a bit of money on the finish, the amount of concrete, the joints and the formwork too by looking at this photo.
how thick can someone be?
at this point .. lol
i mean why not?, construction is already permanent here anyways
this photo has been on reddit for years and it's not in montreal.
i know it was for a joke, but with what's going on in general, people are going to think it's a recent photo.
why are we upvoting this post? it's big sauce.
error: vlc has frozen
[relevant comedy](
"we're all one click away from amazon to buy orange cones to direct traffic or-whatever."
from the great mendes!
as the same says: "modern problems require modern solutions!"
why not, it's just as useful as bill c-21
thank you for the gold and the rest (the culprits will recognize themselves)!
i hate it here sjsjdkskdj
it happens in quebec too, but contrary to what those who know nothing about it believe, it is not neglect, it is intended, on temporary installations
example:
/r/notmyjob
ah so it did not happen in quebec ...
but you did not because they were too scary? :)
a man can only rise as far as his incompetence.
at least it's cheap
it is not everyone who likes fine sauce as do some connoisseurs whose competence is such that one wonders what they are doing here among vile redditors who love big sauce ...
bye!
this is not the kind of cone that is used in quebec.
....and i might lose the kids.
the problem being that it is written as a post from montreal when it is not.
yes and ours live in the streets, like homeless people.
we have to water these little cones to grow big like the ones we are used to seeing on our streets.
imagine 1 goes missing....cops on the radio "amber alert....child missing. be on the lookout for an orange cone"
moé who thought that the cones identified an area that we are not sure what happens.
take my award, it's so on point lol.
so they don't follow the curfew ??? ticket!
they breed it in the gymnasiums of primary schools, sprayed with the sweat of children and, once mature, are transferred to flourish in the streets of the city.
so many of them! which one are they?!
if only...
wow! thank you!
that's why it smacks of swing!
plus....what a freakout for drivers.... self moving cones.
human sacrifice, dogs and cats living together... mass hysteria!
is excellent
nurses, miners, construction workers, security guards, etc. - have entered the chat.
the two salaries of the two jobs are pathetic to begin with.
at the spvm starting it's $ 36k per year
and teaching around $ 41k per year.
both way too low for what they're doing or the risk they're taking
it's going to change soon that's for sure!
spicy
[deleted]
it's going really well in education ...
this post is aimed more at people commenting below than on the meme as such: what is your problem with judging that this or that profession is more important / deserves to be paid better than another? like why compare the salary of a police officer and a teacher, when these 2 jobs are just not comparable?
a police officer completely spoils his physical and mental health by stress within 10 years, it is normal that he retires before a teacher. and it is nights. unless you have to work days and nights on rotating shifts, you can't know what it is and how slowly it kills someone. but it does not have to stand +6 hours per day standing in front of 30-33 students to have to have a tight agenda while maintaining the discipline of these students. the mental load of work stops at the end of the shift, even though the post-traumatic stress disorder probably lasts continuously.
a teacher has a huge responsibility since it holds the future life of your child in hand. i don't know about you, but i've had a lot of incompetent teachers, so it's really important to have the best possible conditions to attract the most people and have the best selection among those who apply. it works evenings sometimes (i would probably say often) but it's never been nights (well, apart for those who like to say that they have `` corrected our shitty copies all night '') and the mental load of looking after the good of each student probably trots in the head of some until bedtime and as soon as they wake up.
in short, all this to say: it just doesn't compare ?! every job has its challenges, and the 'he pays more than me' argument is never going to help advance a cause in life.
if that was it, truck drivers (and many other jobs) would have had better pay for a long time.
focus on the important thing: the salary must be able to cover the costs of living in general + the excess costs that allow better `` forget '' his work outside the job, whether through sport or sleep. in 2021, you can buy a house in montreal, if you are single, without your minimum salary being $ 80,000. well, the salary should also take into account the geographical position and not just the job.
are you a policeman? you need to sleep during the day, life is unthinkable in an apartment (believe me, i work at night and i live in an apartment and it's a mess). you absolutely have to buy a house as soon as possible.
are you a teacher? fine, if you don't go to the apartment, if you need to unwind in your class / in your spa after the job to continue living without burnout, it's just as valid to want to buy a house, and you deserve as much your $ 80,000
c'est accurate as fuck asti
i'm going to give my 2, maybe not popular ...
the budget is far from the biggest problem. the biggest of these are the old guard who don't want to leave and who are negative.
i teach and did internships. the biggest obstacles to new teachers are the lack of serious positions (there is a shortage of teachers and it is impossible to be offered anything other than replacement for 2-3 years).
the old people have the choice of the best contracts each year and they almost always choose the easiest groups. they then give the new guys the toughest bands with the most problems and act like it's a rite of passage when all that generates these burn outs.
my first internship teacher told me that men have no place in teaching among young people (secondary included). from what i have been told this is a recurring problem for new male teachers.
and the breaks. oh my god the breaks. guys, you've never, oh never heard a whine until you've been around teachers on their break. easily 90% hate your kids and their job.
you will tell me that my experience is an anecdote and these are true. but i saw what i saw and even if we double the wages tomorrow, all the current problems will continue.
even if we triple all budgets, that will not fix the problems of attitude and handling. teaching is a profession of power and it attracts vultures and harpies.
not a day that i don't regret leaving, but it's not a lifetime navigating the bullshit of fellow faculty and dishonest unions.
it is very excellent! i studied for k-12 education in the united states but after the pandemic, i decided the pay is not well for the work and the effort. now i want another opportunity where i can wait for french language after university.
but tse .. it's still the reality of the job market there. factory work suffered the same fate. we cut staff, we increase production and we ask to have the same output. ditto for rapid restoration and hospitals. it's boring but it's like that, it's still a business and capitalism. at least the teachers have 3 months of vacation per year, in addition to a pedago every 2 weeks, public holidays, spring break, "storm" day, floating pedago and christmas vacation.
you can't have everything in life.
in addition, the salary is already really low
sick of complaining about the unions ...
loi 101, for ever, now, no exceptions!
for such a generic meme ... translate it before posting at least.
oh we calm down, the teachers exaggerate a bit anyway. it's fine to ask for a higher salary, but which increases the quality of education offered to students? those who are really affected are the students, not the teachers ...
the whole system is falling apart.
construction workers? minors?
the minors? sorry? i don't know if it's specific to abitibi, but over there, it's if you're not a minor that you pity. the mines hire "day laborers" (you do any job that requires no qualification, like sweeping) for $ 18-20 / h. most of my boyfriends made 2x my salary at 16, their parents (minors) hired pick-ups for the year and lived in medium-sized shacks. is it me who has the wrong sample or ..?
minor lol. i have two underage friends making 145,000 per year with a high school diploma.
construction worker lol. another wealthy af group with no study and no intelligence.
we don't compare nurses and teachers alike. i even think the security guards are doing more.
love this squeaky subreddit.
security agent? i am still at 18.65 $ / h + premiums, i have not heard any cutting from my edge in the last 5 years as far as i know 0.o
on average, a police officer will earn 90k per year after 5 to 6 years.
a teacher, 65k after 10 years.
police officers can take full retirement at age 55.
prof 5% penalty for each year under 60 years.
we are not talking about insurance, paid overtime and so on.
police officers have the best working conditions in quebec after doctors.
it is in no way comparable to teachers.
edit: teachers have 4 years of university studies at their expense in addition to 2 years of cegep. so we arrive on average 6 to 7 years later on the job market than the police. without calculating the years of precariousness as a teacher where the full salary is not accumulated and the experience not big enough for a salary increase.
what are you talking about. policeman at the bottom it's 46k.
[
for teachers, after obtaining the certificate, we go directly to step 6 (~ $ 48k). still low, but i think the precision is relevant.
it should also be remembered that having a permanent teaching position sometimes takes years to reach it. you have to be in charge of lessons, give lessons in the summer, do some replacement to accumulate hours. phew, you really have to persevere to get there.
wouldn't we do better to give more money to the police system so that they spend more time being trained for example than just taking money away from them?
the policeman and the teacher live in the same world and we need the same money to pay for their stuff. rents go up, groceries are more expensive, etc. for tlm and we all have the right to live decently no matter what our job.
buying a house is a ridiculous project in 2021.
this is for the boomers and the immigrants
merci. fucking brilliantly written!
i think that through your strong emotion filled with sadness you put your finger on the two problems.
1.
teaching is a woman's job. in my school we are 36 teachers and i am the only dude. the trades of women are full of flaws, whining, wages and judgments.
2. 
that this fight for employees is also this fight for those who are already well off. we must allow easier entry into the profession.
but through all this, the problem is that millennials are 20-35 years old now, they have kids but they still live with their boomer parents.
2021 no revolt
i am a teacher now and this attitude, i have just seen it in schools where students come from wealthier backgrounds. these schools have a "parent pleasing" epidemic problem. "yes mr., yes mrs., your child is the best and deserves a higher grade, i apologize ..." "no, you are right, your child who farts when he is not chosen when he raise your hand does not need psychological assessment. " "yes, you know the needs of your child better than you tame at school from 7 am to 6 pm and spend their children in ski or horse riding lessons."
it is in this situation that i think the teachers "hate your children". we don't hate them. we ventilate. 95% of the teachers i work with love their job. 95% of the teachers i work with do not want a salary increase (would not refuse it either) but an increase in student services. the reason why the pay is so low is exactly what we see on this meme. the conditions are complicated, the teachers split their ass in 4 to achieve the same result. and they succeed. but at what cost?
there are people who have had a bad experience in school and now they ventilate on the radio, in their circle of friends, through their child ... if they had had the appropriate services, they would not have had a human at the end of his patience who would have said to them: "if you had done your duty, you would understand ..." well yes, today's little radio host, well his parents never accompanied him in his path, and he didn't have someone who could help him with his homework after school. because that too is a service where there is a lack of money. today, for him, school is an osti of communists' nest which serves just to enrich jaded union members. worse, the world is 100% embroiled in this rhetoric of the frustrated.
another thing is that when in a class, in general, you have 20% of the students demanding 80% of your attention. if there was a specialized educator per class, regardless of the codes or whatever of the students, that would make the work royally easier and we could increase the attention paid to each student who is a little neglected.
another advantage would be to defeat the power trip of some teachers. because yes, there is. people who have a lousy life who blame it on those around them. with someone else in the class, it calms your ego!
finally, i never felt that the union had too long an arm. never. ultimately, there isn't much they can do. i vaguely saw a teacher once backed up by the union for some bullshit, but he was a union representative himself. it complicated things, but he ended up getting fired.
tldr: the teachers love their job and would just like to have a little more support from the community and the population. we do this job to get your children to know about business and to educate them, regardless of their background. there is a lack of resources to do it properly and it gives the school frustrations (both on the side of teachers and students), which i understand very well.
so if i understand correctly, you want to teach in quebec because the working conditions for teachers are even worse in the united states?
so we should all ask for better, it's no excuse not to ask for better. also, we are not talking about a private company, it is the government that employs us, giving poor conditions to teachers (and school staff in general) sends the message that education is not important, it is the pillar of our society.
go see their average salary for fun
page 106, first on top
tldr: 75k / year on average, not so bad seems to me ...
the salary doesn't suddenly make the classes smaller, does it? or is it magic and suddenly the ratio changes?
sorry.
the teachers have been without a collective agreement for 1 year but are still governed by and pay from the union. schools are falling into disrepair and having adequate school materials is difficult to access so this can also affect the quality of education. education budget, well-paid teachers, resources for struggling students = win for everyone.
better wages would attract and retain skilled people. did you know that nearly 40% of teachers change profession within 5 years of obtaining their diploma? did you also know that the salaries of teachers in quebec are far behind the canadian average, for comparable work? did you also know that a health education system is essential to have a healthy society and economy? a better salary would mean more teachers and thus the possibility of having more classes with fewer pupils, which allows for better support. this must also be done with an investment in support staff which is just as essential as that of teachers.
i have nothing personal against you, but i'm fed up with people pushing this problem off on the backs of “vacations” (no btw sales).
but no, the stock markets are at record highs, all is well / s
[deleted]
do you think that there are just the teachers who work hard and who don't get paid what they are worth?
no i think you're quite a spot on. i don't know what he's talking about ...
i work in pulp and paper and these pretty much the same thing.
our day laborer in my department earned more than $ 20 at age 18.
before the covid summer student positions were paid $ 18 an hour to clean or brush. only business is that it takes a family connection with someone in the union.
what i am saying is that there are several occupations that also deserve a better salary.
it's still really low 65k after ten years in 2021, in memory when i was in secondary 5 in 1997 the top was 50k.
for those who have been hired at the spvm the year passing their salary will be 89k after 9 years and there is almost no overtime if you don't specialize, which is not likely in less than 5 years.
also those who were hired the past year will not have an increase until 2022 so 36k for two years is pathetic hahah
the working conditions of the police officers are getting worse and worse after each agreement they sign, like the last one who lost a lot for their pension fund. i'm just talking about the spvm because i know their conventions very well and because it's the most expensive city to live in quebec.
wow, it starts off low but increases very quickly. it is a bit dishonest when people only mention the starting salary, when it increases by 5000-8000 per year thereafter.
if you read the collective agreement correctly you will see that any police officer is hired as a permanent auxiliary and we have a salary of 36k leaving for a maximum of 2 years or if they become permanent non-auxiliary, he who comes first!
not bad on that their hourly wages are crisscrossing if we include the hours they spend preparing for their classes, correcting cases and etc.
i am impressed. they have managed to hold their own against billionaire funds. it really makes me want to get on board next time.
it's crazy how the complete silence in quebec on that. no media talk about it
open a tfsa on questrade or wealthsimple, buy gme or bb.to and * never * sell (bb.to if you don't want to deal with converting into usd) stick it to the big guys.
this is not financial advice, i am deficient and unable to provide financial advice.
i'm gonna use "pop tape" so much in life now.
let them pay, salt them.
i have my 416 udders i still don't understand how it works even though i have read thefarnell's post at least twice in its entirety.
this is for you in linguistics la gang.
i bought a stock yesterday morning for $ 297. first life experience on the stock market, i wanted to be part of the story
i am a bit late but i converted some money into us with my broker earlier; unfortunately i will not be able to use them before monday, but i intend to buy a stock if it has not exploded to $ 1000 by then, just to mark the occasion. it's going to be a historic event this thing.
someday lots of grandpas will tell their grandchildren about the time the ordinary world destroyed wall street.
remember: we buy, we hold on until we forget we bought, and we eat orange pencils. these are the ones that taste the best.
* the more i eat, the more they are fresh, the more they are fresh ...... reminds me of it *
426 time time
my 416
cst gang rise up
out of solidarity i bought 1 share, if tlm does its thing we will win the battle!
how do you manage to buy stocks while being poor? i looked a bit but there are so many apps that i find myself confused.
fuck them! best thing to happen in 2021 so far! je me souviens!
maths 416 here ... i tried the 534 and i got burnt.
416 or 436 in my time, did you cut that in the middle with the 426 ?? 😁
explanation: the wealthy of wall street wanted to 'short' gamestop's action by borrowing shares from someone else (yes, it's legal) by selling them all straight away for cash, hoping to buy back the shares for peanuts and give them back to whoever they borrowed them from.
but, the reddit investor robinhoods (5 to 6 million people is strong), what they did was they bought a lot of gme (gamestop) stock and now the rich on wall street have to give back. the stocks they borrow. faque there they have to pay the robinhoods of reddit 100 times what they borrowed to have to give back the stocks which they borrowed.
tl-dr it's like i would legally borrow your tv and sell it to pawn shop for $ 5 right away, but there is a guy who bought all the tvs and you have to buy the tv from him without exception at $ 300.
you have to buy some. if we want to kill it's shitty hedge fund. personally, i bought a share yesterday.
"people"
426 crew! good old times
what is the translation of this is the way?
can someone explain to me what happened?
we love the stock
rofl
426 and 436 it was so much the same thing
when the shoeshine boys starts to give stock advices, its time to sell. trouver joe kennedy et vous allez comprendre.
math 416*
[deleted]
me, i sold at $ 420.69 on thursday 🐻🌈
ah yes it is the same which is reposted on all the other sub, but in french.
thank you very interesting
[deleted]
you can always join now, the big explosion has not yet started as the positions of the billionaires are not yet due but monday is going to be an important day to follow
if they don't obey it to prevent next time i guess
i have 7 shares at 360 and i hod for a xillionaire not trader but late
the reality is probably much more nuanced. in fact, most of the money that has supported stocks like gme has come from the big bottom who saw an opportunity to speculate.
[deleted]
they have stood up to a micro handful of funds for a short time ... the only thing that will change in the long run is that trainees in funds will no longer be allowed to short + x% of total stocks
what is surprising is how 1) the media don't understand reddit, 2) they also don't understand that people who buy gme know it's the same stock and they don't put all their savings into it and 3 ) that people hang around quite a bit more than analysts seem to think.
fabien major at radio-canada yesterday and py mcsween are a little above their business, they judge people who make their investments with diy platforms a lot.
there have been 2-3 articles from radio-canada, but yeah otherwise it's not raining.
zone economy did half of its show there, mcsween talks about it, the press, etc ...
more 💎👐
they haven't stopped talking about it to 98.5 fm for 2 days.
listen to gerald filion, he's really good, but his guests are terrible and sold. i think it's wanted to make you understand the cause
economist ianik marcil in an interview [on the radio] (
i seem to have read an article from la presse  -wall-street-and-brokerage-platforms.php
does that surprise you honestly?
tse, they don't talk about it bin bin anymore on cnn. like a sidebar, but it's biden all the way.
i thought i saw zappa talking quickly about gamestop's actions at the start of the week, but otherwise nada.
rdi / lcn has their economy section talk about it.
there is gérald filion at radio-canada. but let's say he defends investment funds more.
so easy compared to halvfemsindstyve in danish, or literally: 4 and a half times 20.
i am an anglophone who learned the french language in quebec and when i hear 99 in my head it is 420109.
francophone belgium could be pitched in with the uk, they also say "ninety-nine" as "nonante-neuf".
edit: i didn't bother to check what sub it was on before commenting, but hey, the message gets through.
though, through, thorough, thought
francophones around the world should adopt "septante", "octante" and "innovante" but that will never happen;)
♪ ♫ ♬ four-twenty-ten-nine ballounes ♪ ♫ ♬
it reminds me of an excellent sketch by yvon deschamps
counting in french, explained by a new york taxi driver: [ danemark(
i put my oldest kids in french immersion in elementary school. it was a genuine struggle helping them to learn this stuff when they didn't yet have the arithmetic to understand why it worked.
the swiss corrected that, right?
y u gotta make me do math, french?
xcix is easier to write but nobody understands when i write mcmxcix as the date of birth
[counting in french with a nyc cabbie](
me seeing a repost :(/ oh its r/quebec
i'll allow it
[nonante-neuf] (
chinese: nine-ten-nine
it's more like "four times twenty and nineteen"
at first i thought it was a joke on the two five four six oh one one (woupelaille) and there i keep thinking about the fact that it must be the most effective ad in the world since i remember it without never have used the services of the linguistic institute.
japanese: i have the opposite of the german language.
worse also with the 70s. when i was learning french in elementary school, we learned the numbers. i wrote "sixty" incorrectly for all of them .... i did not receive a good grade
denmark: half of twenty to five twentys.
very good!
it reminded me so much of [him] (
dozens of balloons 🎈
mdr
u/repostsleuthbot
nice
too cool this word. it obviously inspired me to follow that same meme.
[is this correct now?] (
but ... but that gives 90, not 99?
serious. my dad is danish and this is one of the extremely frustrating things that keeps me from learning the language!
it's even better than that: "a half before five times twenty".
udder of the * nonante-neuf * belgian
the easiest is him that i learned when i was a kid and for which i have nostalgia, the others are all bad.
simple.
loto-quebec: congratulations you won $ 99
you: lynda, we rich now. we won 420 109$
a joint in the morning
i had to read your comment to understand ... 😂😂🤦‍♀️
ive heard that too from a swiss roomate. septant , octante huitante and nonante.
personally i do that too when i count for myself. much faster, much clearer, much more efficient.
it should be officially adopted by the office of the french language, much more logical and simple.
though a rough cough and hiccough plough me through.
it can all be understood through tough thorough thought, though.
bro i'm anglophone and this sets my ptsd off.
i’m teaching english to my 8 year old right now and these words are so rough on him lol
i swear, those who’ve learned to write english through the internet, while also being able to speak it are super heroes. we’ve needed a version of l’académie since about shakespeare lmao
now imagine having a male, female and neutral version of each word... learning one word turns into learning 3 :(
there are three trees in game of thrones
ninety \ *
indeed that will never happen.
the next time you have to do something quick on your own, give it a try. since i did it, for me it is clearly superior.
honestly, it's so much better and i agree. but that will never happen, especially not in quebec 😅
i don't do grannies often, but i found this one to be appropriate in today's environment.
in addition to being in an academic context, it came with a warning * in the lesson plan * (and at the start of the lesson itself too i believe 🤔)
the worst part of this whole "quebec bashing" thing is that the people who feed the most vile anti-quebec racism are the same who give quebecers moral lessons on the so-called "systemic racism" in quebec
(full transparency: i'm asian so i know quite a bit, as a racialized person, what i'm talking about.)
this is because anti-racism itself is ironically rooted in racism and colonialism. the principle of this anti-racism is effectively to divide people according to their race (ie the color of their skin) and to say * blindly *, "ah, these non-whites, we must protect them". i appreciate the recognition of racism in american, canadian and (let's admit) quebec societies because ** it must be recognized **. but there, the measures we take, they remain superficial.
anti-racism measures are, at best, ill-advised good faith of white people and, at worst, simple "circle-jerk", because otherwise i don't know how to explain these measures of marde. being chinese myself, ** i resent ** if, in the strictly academic context, one speaks of the word "chinetoque". yes, it's pejorative, but i'm not afraid of a word. yes, it can shock people, but it's not the word that shocks them; it is rather racism. prohibiting the use of the word in itself will accomplish nothing because it is effectively a sweeping under the carpet or the ostrich burying its head in the sand.
"what a multicultural society we live in!" they say, proud of their "inclusiveness".
"sorry but we still feel rejected by the canadian society ..." visible minorities protest, interrupted by white canadians who shout even louder: "** what a multicultural society! **"
indeed, there is no racism if we forbid all racist words. what a multicultural paradise.
colonizing imperialism has simply changed its face. it hides behind multiculturalism and anti-racism to the point where the concept of nation, as it has been known for centuries, is considered backward. however, the objective remains the same: to assimilate peoples "for their own good".
the superb result of several years of practice in multiculturalism, in living together, in politicaly correctnes and in woke. well done, we're not giving up!
ps: if you don't quite understand what i mean, i'm not saying that you are necessarily part of the problem, but .....
the stupid thing is that the wokes that ban the "n-word" (not mature enough to hear a word used in an undirected way) are inherently racist since their philosophy uses race to determine who can speak on what topics.
it is automatic: "this person is white so his opinion is worth less than the opinion of the other person who does not have white skin".
and i just got a comment on r / onguardforthee where i accused a person of being racist precisely because of that. they banished me. when i asked why i was banned for criticizing racism, they muted me.
we need our country ... taboo. they will end up creating a woke version of "the handmaiden's tale".
1. the university has a duty to act on what is said in lessons, but not necessarily in the public arena.
2. when you see the number of people here who deny systemic racism or who have no idea what it means, it gives the gentleman a * little * reason. especially when it is the only government within the federation to deny the existence of this bug. for your instruction, i invite you to read boucar diouf's opinion on this subject, it may change your perception.
3. when an insignificant gentleman makes the headlines of all the quebec newspapers at the same time when there is a wave of anti-asian racism, it shows a little the priorities and the navel side of the province.
i never understood why people like to hate us so much lol
at the same time, you know, you can freak that out on his head, it works han. the guy is on twitter. why are we wasting our time listening to people on twitter?
as someone who isn't from here originally, it's just so crazy to me that people aren't all reading this for how racist it actually is. all i can think about is what the reaction would be if a politician said "muslims are a biggoted people" because a handful of them expressed homophobic views.
the "it's not racist when they're white" dogma in politics has gone too far. generalizing an entire group of people is problematic, point final.
i wish that i could understand french.
dude on this thread: "instead of banning this word, we should get to the root of the problem."
me: “yeah, but when we try to talk about it and denounce it, we are told that we are victimizing ourselves. "
dude: "what exactly is the problem? racism non-existent? ”
lol empty sentences. note that i have no problem with the use of this word in an academic context. but criss to think that there could be racists who like it to throw this word at us, it is rare naive. i could make a full album of that. i get this kind of insult once a week. minimum.
but hey, i am told that it does not exist ....
some people don't really want to fix the problem. they just want us (blacks) to shut up when we get that kind of insult
go to google and put 1 star at the university of ottawa so as not to denounce quebec bashing. they have to see something that affects the reputation of the school otherwise they will do nothing. there is also an online petition calling for the resignation of the rector
it will make quebec bashing.
let's get up.
this is just shit to divide society and distract from real issues.
i got called a cracker frog by a black man in gatineau and i didn't say anything.
it refers to which twitt (s)?
why are we talking about academic freedom? it is his personal twitter that is not associated with uni. if the university of ottawa decides to sanction it is their decision. same thing when there is who decides to "cancel" that if their employer decides to fire it is their decision.
le context has not arrived
"insulting all quebecois on twitter"
if you get insulted by things posted to twitter and other social media, it's time for you to logoff.
social media is toxic.
get over it.
i call myself a frog all the time ... ° 3 °
i can have the link to the tweet please 🙏
wait what? what are we talking about? another mcgill story ??
i don't feel insulted at all.
here last year: legault is wrong, systemic racism does not exist only in quebec
here ajd: an english asti will not come and tell us that there is systemic racism here, there is none.
go figure
still don't have to say the n word. and québécois is not a race.
montreal stays with canada if quebec wants freedom
well the reverse is also true.
title: academic freedom in quebec
image 1 (no way): insult quebecers on twitter
image 2 (là tu parles): pronounce the word in "n".
it is a question of point of view perhaps. but one thing is certain, is that the debate is off to a bad start because we totally dissociate the different intersectional issues - the intersectionality of poverty, gender, and other forms of oppression - and we turn the debate in "not touch my culture".
worse, that's what keeps us stuck for a very long time.
[deleted]
n
no but ... it is not necessary to use this word la, even in an academic context. it can only offend. we can agree that this will not be repeated and that we don't need to label all french-canadians as racists. sweetheart, this is a tiring discussion. no to the n-word! no to francophone traffic! are you that difficult?
bs, it wasn't saying the n word in an academic context that got em in trouble. it was feeding the trolls on twitter
insulting quebecoids is kinda based ✌✌
it is sure that this sub is sorely lacking grannies on the university of ottawa these days ...
no you are right. i am quebecois / mexican and i find that we exaggerate the freedom of biting quebecers. it goes beyond the limits. you do the same on blacks or latinos and you get picked up solid.
for me, what is ironic is you can repost with the inverted captions and there are some who will find it funny / sad for a lot of the same feelings. during that time, there is surely a black man who is called f \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * - n \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * in quebec and a franco-ontarian who is makes process of f \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * \ * - f \ * \ * \ *.
[you missed the point](
what?? isn't that just tweets on twitter, he's a professor of law and medicine, or is that in his lesson plan ???
edit: my bad, i didn't see that we were talking about the n word
no, he had no warning at the start of the course and in his radio can interview, the teacher said that controversial or problematic subjects (i can remember the exact word) would be discussed in class not the n word itself.
it wasn't in the lesson plan and it didn't even relate to his lesson. she just used the word as an example of a reclaimed word. this is not even a good example, since as she learned, the usage of the word is still very busy.
tse, it is possible that we have systemic racism in quebec and recognize that there is racism in canada in relation to francophones. i do not understand that we gain by denying the presence of systemic racism. why don't we continually try to improve our society instead of ignoring our biases.
that said, there is nothing that enrages me more than the tendency of anti-racist people to minimize discrimination against quebecers. esti people who pull in the piez of their own message
the irony goes 40 feet above their heads even when you point out how hypocritical they are in their comments
we can believe in systemic racism in quebec (and in canada) and at the same time denounce quebec bashing you know ... the two are not mutually exclusive.
as there i have basically just been called a big ignorant xenophobic who confuses muslims and sikhs on r / onguardforthee because i criticized singh and i come from quebec, when i am not even white.
i do not understand the hatred of quebec. i'm from western canada and i think quebec is really cool. i would live there if my husband spoke french.
these idiots are the equivalent of quebec idiots who say that muslims are invading us. no way to reason with them.
yep it's so boring
it reminds me of the story of the nurse recently fired for alleged racism against a native, but later we would have learned that the latter was just clumsy in trying to take an interest in her culture. the reason for this interest? the nurses had had a "positive discrimination" style training or something (probably linked to joyce's death directly linked to racism)
in short, we can try to learn respect for others instead of positive reinforcement according to the socio-cultural category of an individual ...
there's nothing wrong with this stuff, just stop giving priority to a very small vocal minority of people without questioning a majority of affected people
some teacher says shit, the whole system is to be thrown in the trash?
you persist with people who find the severely censored echo chamber of r / canada not politically correct enough for their liking.
[deleted]
"ben tabarnak!" -my reaction
can we take a moment to realize how awesome it really is and the size of the castle?
in my opinion, around -15 degrees.
"another case copied by the chinese" / s
sculpture of the large mural please.
[deleted]
"moman jveut go to chateau frontenac"
"we have the chateau frontenac at home."
chateau frontenac at home:
i really believed for a moment it was just a picture of the real castle under a thin layer of snow
come on big, it's good in tbnk
hi can i comment on this photo without getting banned for whatever reason the admins don't like?
no castle during the covid lol
carnival is so badly managed, nobody goes there, nobody talks about it.
all the organizers must be replaced by a new dynamic generation connected to the modern world.
and a return to the festive character and a place for the popular in the vulgar sense must be made.
their great pride this year is the application that allows you to scan qr codes near the sculptures and you can win $ 2000. it's so pocket-sized.
this is not how we create enthusiasm.
someone tell the ccp to stop copying other people
too cool the chaeau but i'm still going to spam-humanist, bethune, it's a legend: [ danemark( / wiki / norman_bethune)
to be honest, i am really impressed.
tu veux dire: oh shit
harbin ga-so that!
in real size please
elvis wong!
me too
as long as you say nothing that may slightly offend the feelings of your cegep children here, but it's just noon, they're still sleeping, so let go.
it's your business. spit it out, what happened?
yes
> all the organizers must be replaced by a new dynamic generation connected to the modern world.
a better carnaval, with blackjack and hookers!
it's different this year. several places. ice and snow sculpture bcp. worth walking everywhere to see ... if you're in good shape (around 12 km).
> bethune is a legend
* living with pulmonary tuberculosis, norman bethune tried artificial pneumothorax on himself by injecting gas into the pleural cavity before developing and spreading this medical technique. *
oof, a solid beast!
[deleted]
and died of a cut on the finger: o
yeah me too. really.
"a chinese. how can you!" ...
it is not so much the organizers as the city that is in control of the event. a few years ago, the carnival had taken a new avenue with a new dg (the former dg of dagobert) but the city decided that it was not his business and put him out.
the historical nature of the holiday (and the nostalgia of the older ones) makes it very sensitive to change anything.
edit:phôtes
like the grand prix!
and a monorail!
me too. ste rose en glace never had that. even the ice hotel is mostly just blocks.   for a province with pate chinois as its national food, i think its time to up our game.   chainsaws out.
and all of a sudden: mcmasterville
the people of st-bruno already call their town st-brun. i therefore propose the new name of brun-ville, and the mountain mont brun, giving it a prestigious allure with a name similar to mont blanc.
brun-ville would also have an official name in english: brown town.
the more hyphens, the less family names
my favorite is saint-laurent-du-rivière
saint louis of ha! ha! is still hard to beat
yes, but you don't have the problem of having your region and city almost the same.
me: "i'm from gaspé"
them: "omg, is that ***gaspésie***!?"
me: "well yes, but it is a town there"
them: "there is a town in gaspésie called gaspésie? that is so weird!"
me: "no, the town is called gaspé"
them: "but that is gaspésie non?"
# repeat x 1000
it was bishop bourget who had made the names of the villages holy more than 150 years ago ...
it is high time to get back to normal.
during this time on the north shore:
* moisie
* rivière-aux-graines
the longer the name, the more likely it is.
near us: the visitation of yamaska of the holy virgin
the last time we had a village renamed, it gave val-des-sources, which seems much more 'modern' to me than the thousands of saint across quebec. i don't think a lot of people want to rename their towns and villages though.
i like très-saint-rédempteur or notre-dame-des-sept-douleurs.
[deleted]
when you walk around the corner of trois-rivières.
everything is chill, saint-célestin.
nice, st-grégoire. yup a classic.
well yes you thing st-célestin-station.
grand st-esprit, it's a little intense haha.
(the) precious blood. holy fuck this is dramatic.
saint-jean-sur-richelieu-de-montérégie-eleventh-ville-du-quebec
i'm recycling my comment from the last time we had this discussion:
for center-du-québec it's quite intense: 
79 total
43 with names of saints
6 with religious names (notre-dame-du-quelquechose, grand-saint-esprit la-visitation-de-yamaska)
1 with st-laurent in it (deschaillons-sur-st-laurent), named after the river so not necessarily religious
l'avenir (it seems to me that it's religious but not catholic)
12 with "city" in it
3 with "wick" in it
if there are any who still have doubts about the disproportionate and abusive place that religion took in our society, this is the best reminder.
the city of l'avenir wants to know your location
saint-clin-de-meuh-meuh
my favorite: sainte-anne-des-montagnes-de-saint-damien-de-buckland
> its name takes that of the parish where it is located and evokes saint anne in recognition of a miracle. the sainte-anne-des-montagnes-de-saint-damien-de-buckland chapel was built in 1906 on the same site as another, which had been erected in 1885, then destroyed by fire in 1905. during '' a fire in the steeple of the church of saint-damien-de-buckland in 1883, joseph-onésime brousseau (1853-1920), founder of the congregation of notre-dame du perpétuel secours and parish priest of saint-damien-de- buckland, promised saint anne to make her build a place of pilgrimage if she saved her church from the flames. the fire would have been brought under control and the chapel was built in recognition of this miracle.
i learned that st. alphonsus of rodriguez is in fact fair:
saint alphonsus rodriguez without the de.
my life has been turned upside down.
a difficult choice *
sainte-anne-de-bellevue
saint-loin-de-pas-icitte.
saint-michel-des-saints
lol i'm revising for a history exam and imagine: havre st-croix!
saint-glin-glin-des-meux-meux
all the others are native american names
my native village (saint-pierre-de-broughton) was clearly created like this. according to wikipedia, a pioneer with the first name pierre remained in the territory and he was part of the township of broughton ...
also i have already heard somewhere that we have to put hyphens between all the words of a municipality name when there is an english word. has anyone heard that?
saint clin clin des meumeux
surprising that the names st / ste whatever persist with the quebec population which is less and less practicing.
saint-faustin-du-lac-carré which wants to change its name to mont-blanc. is mont-blanc considered an original name?
* in my country of a thousand spiers *
true spa !!! we have granby !! by drummondville..pis .. ouin ... saint - jerome .. ouff ..
ok let's put there a lot !! but there would surely be 1 blue here and there: p
based and red-pounded
all the lexicon of our nation is based on the catholic religion and the first french settlers so that we remember our origins.
i remember.
you've never been to france. must see the names they have for their small towns.
st-tite ... who is that tite !?
formerly the town of labelle was called la circoncision. those who often go to the north know that there is a gap between the conception and the annunciation and the ascension.
sainte-nation-soi-disant-laïque
to pronounce: em-ci master ville.
cmmaitrecity
are we mcmastervillagois when we were born there?
when i drive on the 20 with my girlfriend and we see the sign that calls mcmasterville, we always end up saying it in a big manly voice and we laugh
imagine in time ordering you a no2 at the mcdo de brun-ville.
as motto i propose "brown as snow"
making my way browntown.
walking fast
feces past
and in waybound
*song*
mont-brun ca already exists in abitibi lol
okay, especially because there is another st-bruno in lac-st-jean.
what makes me laugh is the juxtaposition of the following comments on facebook: "fuck the government recommendations, it is not legault who is going to tell me what i'm doing, i will see my friends if it suits me" and "it's been months that we have recommendations of distancing and the cases are increasing the same, quite clearly it does not work the distancing" ... lol
if we count only private gatherings, it is 4% of outbreaks according to the government. the numbers keep growing because:
1. costco's / worldly businesses and the warehouses that serve them are open (50% of outbreaks).
2. schools and daycares are open (30% + of outbreaks).
these two points represent 80% + of outbreaks in quebec and guess what? these are two points that are * government * decisions, not * citizens * decisions.
it's fuck all to blame the people for a problem that comes way beyond their ability to make a difference.
the problem here is that the government announced that we might have a christmas, but did nothing to improve any of the two points mentioned above.
faq that's it. the caq royally shit its communications with its electorate.
edit: source: [this press article] ( de-travail.php) and also [additional data from the inspq] ( 2020) where we can see in more detail the outbreaks in the workplace.
in the middle ages, during the episodes of the black plague, people believed that the plague was sent by god to punish bad christians, the ungodly people who did not keep his commandments. when they saw the others die and their community got away with it, they said "there they are, they have what they deserve, the wicked! they pay for their sins and god spares us in recognition of our piety!" when the plague struck their community, they would say "it is because of the members of our community who do not respect the divine commandments! it is through their fault and by their sins that we are in trouble now!" so many "bad christians" were persecuted, and when there were no more sinners to punish, people would take whips and try to atone for the sins of the community by mortifying the flesh, walking through the villages. whipping, imploring god to forgive them.
we look down on them, our ancestors and their outlandish beliefs ... but we reproduce exactly the same behavior today. we see in covid not a health problem, but a punishment for those who do not behave sufficiently moral, who are too "selfish" to comply with health measures. science progresses, but man remains man, faced with a crisis, we want to believe that our morality will protect us and that those who suffer are those who are less moral than us and who deserve it.
thus, when quebec suffered from covid more than other canadian provinces, we were fooled a lot and many saw this difference as proof of the inferiority of quebecers. when we had the summer respite but the southern united states was hit hard, we said it was because americans are too conservative and individualistic to take the situation seriously, unlike us. and now that the second wave is hitting, we are starting to accuse each other of lacking morality and not respecting the instructions, standard of morality of the time of the covid pandemic.
all we lack now are the floggers who whip their backs in the street to try to compensate for the sins of "quebecers who do not respect sanitary measures".
and now, a good part of those who respected all the instructions and who had everything planned for a safe christmas will be the first to break this new recommendation.
but ... it appears that the overwhelming majority of cases originate from schools and workplaces. it would be necessary to specify in the same "how the children and the workers stole christmas", if you want to take the legault way and blame the citizens ... 🙄
they've been asking the world to be disciplined for 9 months, can you really blame them for slacking off?
because in the meantime, what has the government done to manage the pandemic? has he put money into his fragile health care system, as he likes to repeat ad nauseam? did he pay the nurses' salaries? found incentives to hire others?
no. all the government did was hired pabs (especially to give themselves a good image because that's what caused the cases in chslds to explode during the first wave), and tell people to stay at home as much as possible, hoping that the second wave is not too big.
if the vaccine doesn't work, what do we do? do we continue for another year not seeing each other and moping at home?
no! fuck that! we did our part in the first wave, it is up to the government to arrange afterwards. because otherwise, the next big pandemic, we will go back to square one.
in my opinion, the government's somewhat loose and loose measures are also to blame.
also at the grocery store the washing of treadmill and keyboard to pay lasted a week and then they got stuck.
there must be other examples like this i will not list them all.
finally, it is certain that there must be some abuse here and there by the population.
the biggest risk was shopping before christmas and it's done and we will see the consequences. if he had balls he should have said no rally from the start. there we find ourselves in a situation of losers on all fronts. no more cases because of the gatherings at costco et cie, no christmas gatherings and gifts we don't know who to give.
and we blame that on the population that does not respect the measures. i blame it on the government with soft balls.
* weeps in saguenéen / jeannois *
but check out the shops on boxing day 🙄
😂😂😂
i live in los angeles. same business host here.
but there are those who respect them too. it's boring for those who respect them
dude i'm totally ok that they cancel christmas, as long as the shops remove their fucking unbearable thematic muzak.
of course, it's not like me or anyone here is in a position to ask for conditions ... :-(
the world who complain the most about covid regulations are the ones who never make the right choices when it comes to spreading limits.
would it have helped him if they didn't change their mind 3x before canceling? ty the consistency?
trump said that's not true and other secondary 2 scientists too, so
but stop ... so we can say quebecers are the grinch
bird up!
corona is a hoax
the qc infection rate per month was about 0.05%/month for the 3 month period between june and august. choosing these months specifically because it's when we managed to get covid under control and it's when we basically reopened everything.
among only the student and school staff population, the infection rate was about 0.25%/month for the 3 month period between sept and november.
that's a 5x higher infection rate in schools than it was over the general population of quebec when virtually everything was open.
restos and gyms are definitely not the problem here. schools are. not saying close the schools, iunderstand they need to stay open cuz someone needs to watch over the kids while parents are at work. 
but my point is if you're gonna keep schools open then be honest about the source of the increase of cases. and don't do any bullshit performative restrictions that we know won't fix anything just to have the guise of being responsive to the pandemic.
sources:
when i see us having our big babies there, i'm ashamed of us.
can't go home without a warrant;)
capacity: 
2018: 
2017: 
2016: 
that's the clowns who went to the rosemère shopping center to do their little dance without a mask and all the other covidiots who are directly and personally responsible for the christmas cancellation.
because keven said fuck you to arruda government!
false dilemma. we do not need the government to tell us what to do, they themselves do not know more or less what they are doing.
by the way, if you denounce your neighbors for having rallies, you are fascists.
you should have said from the start to cancel all that big slack. thousands of lives are in danger, thousands of workers in limbo, thousands of local businesses who are rushing to get the job done, all that seems to really matter is the little people who want power. get bogged down because it's christmas. wtf
i'm not normally a snitch, but it'll do me good in caliss when the police disembark at my neighbors' anti-masking rednecks.
if i understand correctly, the 1,500 people who are infected every day are either uncles who do not respect the rules? because even if i grow up an uncle, my mask is supposed to protect me from these germs, okay?
forreal the gyms are clean af, everyone wipes the equipment, everyone respects the distance. nobody gets covid in a gym
the problem is private meetings. open the fucking gyms
always the fault of the enn people! believe me, it's not the small number of people who put their masks under their noses that make the difference
i already do not fully respect the sanitary measures, so christmas is not canceled by us either.
it's absurd that people aren't more disciplined than that. pfffff ...
you have to be careful with the juxtaposition, it's not the same people.
on the one hand, people followed the recommendations, but the cases have not changed. with legault canceling the gatherings, these same people say to themselves that it will be useless so they will get together for christmas. i think they would have a different attitude if their confinement had any visible concrete result. but legault is just giving the negative.
to date, we seem to just flatten the curve, which can be considered a success, but at the same time, if the transmission is in the schools, the curve has flattened naturally, with the size of the classes as "bottleneck".
there's no point in having traffic lights! there are tank accidents like that!
ignoring the fact that without them there would be many more accidents ...
the qc infection rate per month was about 0.05%/month for the 3 month period between june and august. choosing these months specifically because it's when we managed to get covid under control and it's when we basically reopened everything.
among only the student and school staff population, the infection rate was about 0.25%/month for the 3 month period between sept and november.
that's a 5x higher infection rate in schools than it was over the general population of quebec when virtually everything was open.
restos and gyms are definitely not the problem here. schools are. not saying close the schools, iunderstand they need to stay open cuz someone needs to watch over the kids while parents are at work. 
but my point is if you're gonna keep schools open then be honest about the source of the increase of cases. and don't do any bullshit performative restrictions that we know won't fix anything just to have the guise of being responsive to the pandemic.
sources:
there are many like that. i saw a post that says that we are sheep if we follow the rules for christmas, and she will see her family the same (she does not live alone ... she is with her boyfriend, their 3 daughters, her friend and her guy in a house).
i understand that people want to see their families. but it's just a christmas. there will be others. it's not 1950 ... we have technology. we can make video calls, we can drop gifts at other people's homes and have a virtual christmas this year that's all. we can stay in pjs all day and no need to travel.
sure it's boring, but at least we can save lives and give more people a chance to be there for christmas next year.
thank you very much for real !! i'm so sick of people who put their heads in the sand and criticize the few kevins who decide to see their friends. yes, are a problem, but god who are not the main cause far worse. you just have to look at the curves of the cases since march 2020: june, july and august it has dropped enormously, and it explodes in september. we wonder where the correlation is: clearly not at the level of restaurants or bars, in any case ...
the government manages it like a waste, both in terms of communications and the preparation of schools during the summer. worse, we want to cancel christmas, as if it was the population that has been following the instructions for 4 months the problem? fuck you legault.
thank you. i'm sick of seeing the knights of social justice blaming this on kevens. the people of quebec, in their vast majority, have complied with the instructions until now.
where do your figures come from on the percentage of cases caused by a particular cause? i'm curious.
you're right, but in any case it proves that there is now more community transmission rather than outbreaks in closed settings (chslds).
the world who work and pass it there are the same people who are going to come together at christmas and pass it on. the reason why the transmission is especially at work and at school is surely because it is the main exit of the majority of people (i know that my only exits are to go to work and to school). 'grocery store so it is sure that if i have to catch the covid it will be there).
faique yes tsé. blaming the kévens is a shame, but it is still logical to cancel christmas with so many cases. the decisions are governmental but the transmission is the same individual. and the govt would rather cancel christmas than go back to full lockdown in january.
it doesn't work with all your numbers. try to find some that prove your point. quickly, i found some for the alterta
[stat alberta](
of more than 11,000 cases in a week, just 1,000 are linked to outbreaks. 9200 are from unknown sources.
i think we confuse outbreak and case here, right? the links i do not refer to the percentage of cases. i am looking for the data of the distributed cases.
yeah, i agree, but i don't want to start growing my vegetables in my apartment ... i have no choice but to keep the shops / grocery stores open.
where do you get the percentages of outbreak sources?
it surprises me that the person-per-trade limit was not put back in place faster than that for the second wave. seriously, it's no surprise the curve doesn't flatten out when customers are strung like sardines at costco.
4% because there has not yet been the immense increase that christmas is going to make
it is true that it does not make sense the lack of measures / punishments for the costco and any big business. for schools, the subject is more sensitive in my opinion. it has to be improved for sure, but there are no simple solutions. that said, there are few cases due to gatherings precisely because they are prohibited and / or limited. if everyone is having big christmas parties, the percentage will increase. especially since it is boring, but it is not considered an "essential service" to have large family reunions for the holidays. this is one of the "easiest" measures to prevent the spread, although it might hit them in the face.
except that going to costco remains a conscious choice of the citizen ... if the citizen is not aware that there is a pandemic there is a serious problem.
it just lacks a maxime bernier in the same position as trudeau but 20 meters behind all the others.
it's rare for a cartoon to make me laugh.
this one i found it good!
very funny!
excellent! but it's always fun to see our politicians being roasted in front of the cameras and having to justify their existence.
i don’t really get it, is it saying how the elections are pointless because trudeau is going to win anyway? someone explain
i like!
true
probably wanted to stay in government to proceed with what ever their devious agenda is.
should’ve shown bernier falling off his bike and jagmeet in 🥉
that's funny shit
is good
exact ! 
but, instead of a stationary bike, in a rowboat with its oars: d
but oriented in the opposite direction.
with him also his arms in the air
bernier 100m in the field.
biting his participation medal and kissing the woman who gives it to him ...
trudeau won, but pretty much nothing changed, they didn't move, they stayed stationary.
yes. he started the elections two years early and it changed nothing.
by treating those on a sheep bike!
and who is paddling on the wrong side.
by pedal boat
i can not help but read your sentence with the voice of the british in asterix and the surprise of caesar.
that too is funny ... marvelous, splendid
thanks
it's a minority government, if he didn't trigger the election, the other parties would have gotten together and did so in 3 to 6 months.  the timing was definitely strategic, because the 4th covid wave, vaccine passports, and other problems were coming, but saying he triggered the elections 2 years early is a little ridiculous since there's practically an almost 100% chance that elections would have been triggered within the next 6months.
with annamie paul on a mountain in the distance
wonderful
no, she's on a real bike, but she pedals in the opposite direction ...
“the month of april will be critical” - legault april 2020
“the month of april will be critical” - legault april 2021
it doesn't tempt him any more than you do.
legault is giving a conference to tell us that we have to get out of the way. i don't care about the conference! what i want are pictures of the squid!
why do so many people talk like this is we were the only place in the world to do that?
to date in montreal, we do a great job of keeping the curve flat.
it's the end of the marathon.
the problem is that everyone is tired of quarantine (especially those who depend on cities for a living) and the government has to please the people, since that is what governments serve.
so legault relaxes health measures in order to please the world and that logically causes the cases of covid to increase. it's logic. if there is more contact between people, it is sure that there will be more infections. once the number of cases increases, the government feels compelled to combat the increase. the only readily available way is to revert the restrictions that have already been imposed. that's what pisses off. i wouldn't want to be in legault's place because it doesn't matter what he's going to do, we're going to hate it. if he relaxes the measures and people die, that's the fault. if he puts more severe measures, he is a "dictator".
it's going to go back and forth to the point where vaccines will be widely available to everyone who needs them (in short, everyone). well, this is the only definitive solution against covid. for this reason, we must urge the federal and provincial governments to be agile with the vaccination campaign. there is no other way out. i'm already sick of needing to wear a goddamn mask all over the place.
fed up with half measures!
i work in a hospital and believe me the worst covidiots are part of our government and the health system. on the news have always waited it is the fault of the young or the old or christmas. but in reality there is always staff turnover in the red zones, no real respect for distancing (i have seen rooms crowded with people in the administrative premises for meetings) and completely unbelievable and unnecessary expenses.
serious guys, it's finally starting to fuck my morale up. it was no worse at the start of the pandemic. the news of the 2nd wave arrived at the same time when my employer told us that we had no more jobs in 6 months, and i was still able to find some positive in all of that. but it gets heavy. i'm fed up with 'it's going to be fine' 'the good days are coming' 'we'll be fine'. i'm tired of hearing the colors of the zones, the vaccination groups, astra senegal, the variants. legault talks all the time about mental health, tbk, my mental health is terminally ill.
oh my godddd these press conferences just reached the height of ridiculousness
🤡 🤡
courage from your friends across the atlantic :)
osti que chu tanned.
it’s a 14 day , 14 point plan to flatten the curve . 14 days , a point a day and we are getting our summer back!
you sound like teenagers complaining that the exam was tough and that the teacher is too strict but they didn't really make an effort to study and they went out the night before.
respect the fucking rules and there will be no containment fucking !!!!!!!!
bands of babies i see a lot of people not wearing masaues these last days as if there was no covid. you deserve confinement as it is not possible. no one can play by the rules.
we go crazy everyone thinks it's a myth worse the masaues it does not work .... lose your right lung monsieur guy i am sure you know more than your doctor !!!
i lose hope i think that quebec is indeed mentally not there.
fuck quebecers this confinement. fuck quebecers to wear a mask.
i remember last year i said to my girlfriend: "2-3 months and it's over, we won't let go"
today, over a year later: "just keep me posted on the following two things: when it will be my turn for the vaccine and when i will be able to go out again"
it's just the same thing all the time with the news of the covid, or capable. wake me up when it's over.
he never said which april ...
its you see who doesn't know what he's talking about, its just tests every time and nothing works
that's always what i say to myself, like his life revolves around this osti of covid19, when he became prime minister he didn't expect to manage this chiar there
it must not be easy to be caught in his mansion.
[deleted]
it does not try, but it arranges it in cursed.
the caq program.
contains squid.
crisse chu ben!
we also don't care about the text.
it's easier to blame the local government than to recognize that the pandemic is an incredible global challenge that hardly anyone living today has experienced.
[deleted]
is it a good sign or not a _palte_ curve?
[deleted]
you are the reason why greater montreal was confined for a long time.
it looks more like the cocothon.
at least when i run a marathon it's less painful and i feel less long than a press conference. ugh. he must stop talking
i agree with you legault has no way of coming out as a political winner. i just find that he communicates very poorly. what exactly is the end goal of health measures? eliminate the virus? it will not arrive. gain time to vaccinate the population? ok, how many people and how many doses does it take to lift the measures? unclog the health system? this is a management problem. eliminate variants? good luck the virus mutates more than ten times a year.
so what are the criteria for changing the color zone?
managing with an authoritarian style like the one adopted by the government has several consequences on the population, including rebellion against health measures and conflicts among the population.
glad to see people able to analyze everything objectively. unfortunately, seeing which comments are upvoted to the top, we are a minority.
all those who test positive or who are suspected of having covid will henceforth be “missing” as in north korea. no more half measures! there will have been enough of covid here!
haven't you understood yet that full or half bars, it will continue like this? covid is not going to go away no matter what we do.
not surprised, my mother-in-law is a manager in a chsld (on sick leave for more than 6 months) and said two weeks ago that we are no longer in a "pandemic context" and that the government is pushing its luck in its measures and should deconfin ...
yes i have a hard time keeping up with all the minor rule changes ... like can i see my grandmother who lives alone and has been vaccinated for over a month? yes or no? and that kind of thing isn't on the website either ...
same thing for me. press conferences i think enough is enough. the next should be to open the vaccination to everyone and the last to reopen everything. but hey we all know there will be 25 more.
> i remember last year i said to my girlfriend: "2-3 months and it's over, we won't let go"
i don't mean to be mean but ... it was very naive to believe that.
personally, i have said from the start that the return to normal would probably be in 2022.
we already knew that there would be no vaccine before the end of 2020. and that was the best scenario! we had the best screenplay, so we're still lucky, you have to see it like that :)
as the perfect song "wake me up ... when september ends" says.
you will stay asleep for a long time my boyfriend. we'll have to get up sooner or later.
i tried to listen to radio canada radio the other time in a tank, i like the shows usually. but it is more listenable, covid in loop every hour.
i'm waking you up now to tell you that if you don't resist, fight back, rebel, we will never get our freedoms back. this isn't about a v1rus or a v4kseen. wake up people!
10 mistakes in one sentence. my eyes hurt! 😣
"cases are not rising in montreal"
guess why it's not going up ?? because the virus has decided to take time off and let go of the mtl ?? or because the severe measures ensure that the number of cases is controlled ??
well yes you, the cases go up more then let's party it is the moment !!! thoughtful 2 min.
because when you're a responsible adult, you have to do things that don't appeal to you.
because as soon as we don't, the number of cases explodes. that there is a host of a bundle of the dead. while the cost to do so is very low. even if the gyms would remain closed until the end of time, it does not matter ...
when i lived in montreal, i had a unilingual english-speaking roommate who decided to enroll in beginner spanish lessons "just for fun". you know ...
that they don't speak french or don't want to learn it because they will then return to their province or country, that doesn't bother me. but it's the condescending attitude towards french-speaking quebec that irritates me the most.
my boyfriend came here from alberta. he is so surprised with everyone cheering him on with his french and he always tries. he hasn't had a negative yet. in alberta, my quebecois friends were laughed at all the time. it feels good to come back here.
yeah, i met these people when i went there, but also it's still difficult to learn french in montreal. my french is not perfect, but quite functional (i think about it?). but i had two montreal roommates who preferred to speak in english.
in my opinion, this is also mcgill's fault. i have two friends who have indicated on their applications that they do not speak french, and it was "optional" for our program, but it was a health program. how the fuck can you say "french recommended, but not mandatory" for a health program in quebec?
[a mcgill student discovers a city of poor people in the east of montreal]
(
i was recently reading about the joual and why it is considered an "incorrect" version of french. it is based on the fact that at the time of the colonies, the french language was considered large and beautiful, and therefore desirable ... but during this time, the french colonists, them, spoke this beautiful language while they were clearly inferior.
the solution? they say the version of french they speak is impure and incorrect.
i say this because this same mechanism is often still visible today. there are a lot of people who are interested in foreign languages, even french, but at the same time they will turn their noses up on quebec french, which is not "standard french" or something like that.
in other words, even french-speaking quebecers have this reflex towards their own language. i am not telling you the number of french second language teachers in quebec who do not want to teach the "bad words" that quebecers use day by day.
a bit like the french who come to quebec to hang out with other french people. no hate, i just find it funny.
i am an anglo, i moved here from toronto. i went to university at concordia and i spoke nothing french. but when i look for her in restaurants, there are a lot of people who only speak francias. every morning i watch movies in french and read a lot of french. but there are a lot of times i get discouraged and it's easy to live in montreal and just speak french. maitnenat i looked for the traviller in the city of quebec because i am not sure i can take the french as a native in montreal.
i don't know why the french lessons are not free for anglos here, only immigrants ... i have to pay the tax here like everyone else. i am sorry for my french i have not the oppuruntie before to take the lessons.
this applies more to plateau hipsters from ontario who moved here to meet up
there is an old text from urbania relevant to this. it was when anglo hipsters started to invade the mile-end:
[sorry i d'ont speak french](
> a formidable district therefore and which attracts, for this very reason, a new all white ethnic group: the english canadian. but beware, not just any kind: the globalist / ecological / conscientious / artist / and curious alter of everything ... except quebec society. i have been studying this ethnic group carefully for a few years now and i am still amazed at the inevitable: “sorry, i dont speak french” pronounced by such educated people who say they have chosen to live in montreal, pq because whether the city vibrates distinctly from toronto, halifax, calgary or vancouver.
> she has just made a documentary on lesbian women in black africa. in front of her friends, she is proud to say that she had to learn swahili to get in touch with the locals. impressed, i ask her in french if learning swahili was difficult, she replied: "sorry?" with the puzzled look of someone who is spoken to in an unknown language. i put the question back to him in english before being surprised: "you've been living here for seven years and dont speak french ?!" completely incredulous in front of this paradoxical linguistic curiosity. she answers me, without realizing how ironic her answer is: "french ... it's really hard for me!"
still funny to see the condescending remarks of a few people here or the remarks which defend the normality of not learning french.
when you live 1 year in a nation and cannot communicate the slightest bit in the national language, be it mandarin, spanish, russian, wolof or french, you are a person of marde, openly closed to the culture of the other and with a colonialist attitude.
12 years later, this article still seems to be relevant
can confirm, i met a malaysian asian of british columbia who studied at mcgill and who lived in montreal, not a word in french, exclusively english. when i asked her if she intended to learn french she replied with a very condescending negative.
this granny applies really well to the government of canada too
cross-post on r / canada please, it would be magic
hahaha is good xd
with more than 50% of mcgill students coming from outside quebec, it's unrealistic to hope that most of them speak french fluently.
they think they are hippies but they are unable to tell the difference between ** interculturalism ** & ** multiculturalism ** ...
i'd be fine to pick up a couple of them on r / canada and r / canadapolitics, but i'm just going to get a ton of downvotes from bad guys thinking i'm ultra open.
sorry for the language, the ridiculousness of ** canadian multiculturalism ** pisses me off! we take the canadians ** (quebec federalists included) ** for idiots.
i come from newfoundland and, having started learning french in quebec at the age of 20, i can say that you have to be really persistent to learn it in quebec or montreal.
in montreal there will not necessarily be economic motivation. we can very often work without. and there is not much interest in quebec culture, it has no exotic appeal like some others.
if you want to learn anyway, you're going to have a good two years during which everyone will try to speak to you in english. at least everyone that matters. i often had to really insist that new acquaintances speak to me in french. there have been a lot of people that i have pushed out of my life altogether because they don't respect that.
there i live in germany and i try to learn german. i don't have the same energy. people speak to me in english, i surrender. it's really easier and i don't have the same vigilance as before.
then it's not because you master french that quebecers will accept you. quebec is very much on the defensive (i think there are good reasons), and we often feel a very closed attitude. for many, you will always be part of an "other" group.
it's really not everyone who is like that. i made a lot of very good quebecois friends, but i also often felt excluded.
i agree that there are a lot of people who don't try at all, because they have no interest, are too lazy, despise quebec culture, etc. and that's very problematic, obviously. but honestly, i really don't think we're going to motivate them with criticism.
and for people who want to, there are obstacles other than access to courses and the difficulty of the language.
“i’m learning swahili”
“i lived in montreal for 4 years”
it's fun because it's true.
i don't worry about her. she has a future as a senior official in ottawa.
"it's so cool, montreal is bilingual, everyone speaks frenglish, it switches from one language to another, it's completely nice."
nenon dear. that's mcgill, that. apart from that, when you say a sentence in french, worse that it switches to english worse that it reswitch more, i call more that of franglais, either. "
forgive me im an immigrant
"paint me like one of your french girls."
ghetto mcgill, indeed, lol
even so, how avenue du parc has become a hotspot of rather threatening crackheads. retribution!
take my high-vote little genius
osti of good granny hahahaha
me, i arrived at mcgill relatively capable in french (good fsl courses in secondary school thanks to the bilingualism policies of father trudeau).
but it took a few more years in montreal to become comfortable in quebeq. : p
as a french i am considering going to mcgill in the future, is it a more anglophone or francophone university? it all depends on that
perfect 🙌
"in the ghettooooooooo"  
\-elvis
this is really funny. sorry, can't type in french.
[deleted]
i am not a mcgill student but an english speaker. every time i tried to have a conversation in french but didn't speak perfectly or with my english accent, they changed the language to english.
case in point lol
as someone who’s struggling to learn french this comment section is hilarious.
i think it's mcgill's fault. they should have french lessons, no?
i'm from vancouver, bc, and will be going to montreal in two weeks. i am chinese but i want to learn french: ')
you should have taken a chinese, tse, mcgill
cheese omelette
holy based
i can speak chinese. who still speaks french?
is it generalized or are we still making our pits?
maybe because even if we do learn french despite how innefectively (in my opinion/experience) it is taught in schools, you will still be disliked by french canadians for not hiving the right accent only those born and raised in quebec have. it's a lot to ask someone to learn a language just out respect for a single province, especially when many people in that province want to separate from canada and are xenophobic towards people from other provinces.
the irony is that there are a lot of people in quebec who refuse to learn english.
ben is racism and closed-mindedness on both sides (quebec / rest of canada). i mean ... it is not much use to throw the stone, the idiots will remain idiots and those who want to change minds to make more efforts unfortunately
this kind of logic is why everyone in canada hates quebec.
it's sad to read the comments and see that for many, quebec culture is the french language. yes language is part of it, but it's much more than that.
i am open to other cultures and i do not speak mandarin so far, and if i had the opportunity to spend 3 months in china to study during a session i would not learn mandarin either. a few words, a few sentences, but never enough to have a conversation and certainly not enough to qualify it as "speaking mandarin."
when you're franco-ontarian and you pick up shit from quebecers as well as english ontarians
> because
the humor of 1973 is making a comeback, i see. you don't have to go to toronto often to say that.
i do a covid check while pissing in an elevator, those who don't flint are known!
i do the same joke for quebec, context: i come from the maghreb
*shots fired*
it would be more cuba in 1995 but hey ...
having lived in toronto for most of my life, i don't relate primarily to asian food.
i don't have an opinion on ontario catering, but when i went to visit a friend in toronto, i was talking to him about the fact that we make a lot of cheeses that are recognized in my native region. at the same time, we were entering a cheese factory and the first cheese i saw in the counter came from the said native region.
cqfd bitches
check in this post for the next conversation regarding the r / quebec quality plummet; over 400 people found it funny / relevant.
spells your home man.
i don't agree except for the poutine. not able to find a good poutine here.
it is the same products as in quebec ... but hey
euuuuh, ok
like what, humor is subjective!
you saw that on r / rance and you wanted to do the canayan version, eh?
recently in toronto i ate sickening japanese soufflés, japanese pastries from a pastry shop from japan, and we don't have any of that here. without counting all the authentic chinese restaurants especially in markham, the choice of food is incredible and far superior to what is done here. in fact i go to toronto almost every year among other things for the food haha.
well i spend a lot of time in toronto and there is a way to eat well in criss….
hahaha
the food in quebec is ok. there are restaurants that are good and you have mardy restaurants like everywhere else. i don't know where you're going to eat when you go to ontario, but what you find in garbage bags lying on the side of the road is meant to go to the dump, not to eat. i understand if money is tight but it's at your own risk ...
when you think that you are in hell because everyone is bad to drive, but you remember that you are in quebec
it reminds me of the first time i went to an ontario "brewery".
the beer tasted like water, the steak tasted like water, the fries were still frozen and the ketchup was heinz.
ok i laughed it
*** shame *** ario
if i could read this i would be very offended 😤
except for the butter tarts, honestly.
ontariendemander.
it is not false!
what is this? 
" you think you have covid because the beef has no taste , then you remember you are in ontario " do i have that right?
^(***mooom, they're speaking canadian again***)
i prefer to have the covid
it's better when it tastes nothing!
would somebody translate for me? 🥺
get this shitty subreddit out of my feed damnit.
because of that they screeched syrup all over
<pleure en québécois qui demeure en ontario>
baguette
you've clearly never eaten at riviera in ottawa!
ontario to r/quebec is like engl🤢nd to 
r / okbuddyretard
at least we wore stockings with our sandals 😁💯🔥
damn, that's fucking bad that.
i mean, the best restaurants in canada are typically here, not elsewhere in canada.
there's a reason for all of this.
source: i am a cook.
is quebec food good? 🤔
wow, we like the shit-posts here
how can ontarians be insulted by this meme? : / i see some in quebec and i laugh at them! a meme can't be taken that seriously lol it's like a hug giving you a finger. you can't be shocked afterwards!
it depends, if you are looking for indian, thai, etc.
you will find flavor in ciborium! otherwise ... i confirm the veracity of this meme.
i do not speak spanish?
my sample is not very big, but i remember eating the worst pad thai of my life in toronto. it tasted like tomato sauce ... i was also very disappointed with the '' chipotle '' channel. i remember saying to myself: seems to me that it's not so good here so far?
[removed]
went to 3rd highest rated chinese restaurant in ottawa and it was literally the worst tasting food i've had at a restaurant, no exaggeration. 
even manchu wok was better, and that's saying something
you are a real artist sign my balls please
it goes straight to the hall of fame.
this is a solid post. well done.
it was necessary. it was done. it is magic.
unbelievable
i had to upvote just for the amount of effort, wow
can i make you an interac transfer for a roteu and a greaser?
next dlc : annamie  paul (skin elyzabet may)
ayoye gros big
[deleted]
thank you for your work!
you won the internet and my heart.
[deleted]
thank you for your great program!
i like that you resist putting "grow a column" in the "conversation" section. that's good even my boss.
good job, great choice of lobby music.
sub position of the year
heard the trailer is better than the movie
it's bar gold, good job!
protips to unlock mad max: first you have to see max's shadow pass in front of the moon in the pit, then you have to make 2 majority victories in a row, that you end up with a fatality (it doesn't work if you you fight against trudeau because there is no column) that you finish the tournament, that you enter "ppc" in the highscore, after that, in the character screen you simultaneously weigh on the plan pitons to get rid of mad max. he has the powers of the other 5, plus stephen harper's erections and jack layton's cane. i swear it works, my cousins made it!
i pledge myself to your teachings.
we want more. nourish us with your talents. ok thank you bye
theme from smash bros, so i have to upvote
i am vnu.
world-class content on air québec! you should cross-post this on air canada!
thanks for your service.
what an excellent post !! thank you and well done friend.
lol i sent something similar to my friends when it was trudeau vs o'toole. 'choose your character'
then it was jagmeet i sent by putting 'unlockable character'.
then yfb the 'dlc character'.
omg it's absolutely perfect!
take my quebec gold!
steam link pls
[deleted]
fak, who's the master hand icitte?
pierre is s tier change my mind
that's wonderful
unbelievable. take it my upvote!
hahahaha wow, it feels good to start the day laughing! well done for the assembly!
heille mam that was really nice. go on like her
10/10
lmao good job man
peter made me die
good content and effort on r / quebec. i love
mad max
mortal kombat: xll
bahahahhaaaaa
i went looking for my free award just for you! worse, i feel like playing smash haha
it's really funny!! thank you ahahaaha
bernier for smash confirmed!1!!1
u / savevideo
is that made my day! incredible seriousness
[deleted]
quebec according to reddit: hon hon hon baguette
quebec according to r / quebec: i made mistakes in mange dla marde my osti de larousse.
don't go to r / polandball, that's almost always exactly that
on reddit, we are known for:
- speak only in french and hate people who do not force themselves to speak french
- respond in english to people who try to speak french because we are passive-aggressive
whether we speak french or english, we can't do it. maybe you should start speaking spanish.
poutine is fine, but i can't wait to see chinese pâté make a resurgence in quebecois memes.
as an american who infiltrated r / quebec, i have to say that it is exactly the opposite where i live. i remember being shocked that quebeckers spoke to each other in french. i thought quebec was like canadian ireland where people only speak gaelic / french if they want to be eccentric.
excuse me, i'm going to leave now.
everyone one knows quebec is known for [farador](
[a little modification.] (
well no the pooteen it belongs to english canada now.
and equalization on reddit.
i would like to add a quebec phenomenon that is both underestimated and little noticed: the pronunciation of certain english words (among french speakers, of course).
i came back from france after a long stay, and i finally realized, after a few days, that the relationship between french and english in quebec and much more ... normal, is easier. when quebecers say _party_, _smoke_, _fun_, it seems to me that the words adapt well to the environment and to the culture, which is not always the case in europe. i still find that a lot of people outside quebec see a francophone island. i see style rather ...
celine dion?
just for laughs, les gags?
karine vanasse?
hockey?
> quebec according to ~~ reddit ~~ ** americans **
it is not for nothing that in south park, quebec is nothing other than france in america. the portrait of canada (including quebec) is a caricature mocking the fact that americans are completely ignorant of what is going on outside their country, even in the neighboring country which is their most important military, diplomatic and economic partner. .
an example is [this video] ( when americans hear that, they have no idea where the accent comes from because they think we have the french accent.
we offer the hub to the world and not a single thank you osti
at the same time, a baguette is good. especially in a raclette.
i swear, even if i specify french canadian, they continue ...
meme with photo of canada / quebec
"they're the same picture"
« great fishing in quebec »
the chopsticks are not ours, i swear it to you!
(anglo here) making me drop full ib
i like the swear words
damn it!
pis céline.
i thought he didn't stop at stop signs and often honked his horn at red lights. chickens should be very careful crossing the road.
quebec according to almost all the settings of computer keyboards taking into account the language. (ex. french quebec therefore azerty, tabarnak!)
it's true, but the joke falls on them.
poutine, cirque du soleil, and “tabernac!” are pretty much all i know about quebec.
bombardier is pure quebecois.
in short: tabarnak.
r/unexpectedoffice
that, and the shitty driving...
[removed]
[deleted]
reddit is not synonymous with english canada.
lol, damn she made me laugh this one! it was this post that made me subscribe to the subreddit.
it is intended, the goal of polandball is absurdity and ridicule, a bit like south park and their version of canada and * french canada *.
> maybe you should start speaking spanish.
i have already started.
spanish is too easy to understand, we will have to speak a kind of language made up of the word spitting and writing made from drawings like the hieroglyphics. so we are the most weird and passive aggressive people!
i have a secret hope that the us will become completely spanish speaking.
it would clearly be necessary to speak more spanish than english in quebec, it is easier to learn in addition.
i need to learn more spanish it is very easy to compare to english.
i think it's great.
tokebekicitte!
peanuts butter
it's hard to make good chinese paté, and bad chinese paté is just as pocket-in-the-wall as a bad poutine.
when it's dry, the potatoes are crumbly and the beef tastes the carton.
a good chinese paté with creamy potatoes, good fat and juicy ground beef well seasoned with a tipeu of onions, which drips its juices in the rest, hmmmmmmmmmmmm.
amen
indian wheat steak potato ftw
truth be told, i've seen canadians on reddit who were amazed to learn that there were a fair number of quebecers who didn't speak english, or who barely sputtered enough to order two hot dogs on the beach. in florida. some apparently thought that we all mastered english (like the irish, i imagine), and that the whole history of french in quebec was a matter of wanting to stir things up for nothing.
we are the irish of canada but for many other reasons lol
this is exactly what my friends think in the states where i work. they imagine louisiana! welcome!
i am a simple man, i see farador, i check if i wake up and i upvote!
👏
finally my esti
> score! we had it off !!! ah-hihiiiiiii! heille, anderson cuddle! tobacco! tobacco, we have it! yiyiyiyiyi! calvary of cuddly tabarnac! we have it, owl! eh? huh mary, cuddle? your lasagna was good in tobacco! ciborium of tabarnac! we - hee, anderson, ordeal, that's my cheek as a host! crisscross! tobacco! calm! it put that 2-2, ordeal, and cuddle it 3-2 in addition! heille – sti – we are going to – r – ah – heille, my, my chair, got me there, brought it to rue sainte-catherine, cuddle. tobacco! tabarna – heille, screech that d'da – heille – y'a – ah y'a – a-do-tu v-a-did you see that? have you seen this? have you seen this? ciborium! orgore it tabarnac! argargargargargôre! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy ... ciborium! was made ... gâ if it's easy! ost – tabarnac! gâ if it's easy! gargargargar-gôre, tabarnac! it's easy!! it fits like butter, like popa in moman. cursed côlisse! ... tobacco! tobacco! heille, a strong aut, côlisse! ... we kick a tabarnac!
good saint jean
i'm glad they won; bettman wanted to show investors how interesting it is for them, while his new team just got beaten in the semi-finals by the one he hates the most (and who hasn't won a cup in almost 30 years) .
translation: hiiiiiiiiihhhaaaaaaaaaa tin my bunch of criss!
'sti that i love to be québécois côliss
good st jean tabarnak
wow i think i'm going to sand my penis lol
it smells like the cut for real!
i am poor bain, i am proud !!!! '
yeehaw!!!!!!
when you force vegas to remove its goons from the lineup, you know it's serious.
lehkonen sti!
tabarnak my caliss!
hahaha you kept that in notes is that it? 😛
!emojify
hahahaha! perfect verbatim of the evening.
tabarnak my osti!
[but of course!] (
score! 🍆 we had it off !!! ah-hihiiiiiii! 😍 heille, anderson cuddle! 💀 tobacco! tobacco, we have it! 👏 yiyiyiyiyi! câ-smooth 🔥 of 🅰🐿 calvary of 🎧 tabarnac of 🅰 cuddle! we have it, 📢 owl! eh? huh mary, cuddle? 🔥 your 💰 lasagna was good in tabarnac! ciborium of tabarnac! we - hey, 🔛 anderson, ordeal, that's my cheek in 🅱 🅱! crisscross! tobacco! calm! 🤕 there is ⏰ 2-2, 😂 calvary, and 💀➕ cuddle 💀🌈 that 3-2 👏❤ in 🅱 extra! heille – sti – we are going to – r – ah – heille, ma, 👩 my 💰👩 chair, bring her to me, to rue sainte-catherine, cuddle. 💀💀 tobacco! tabarna – heille, screech that d'da – heille – y'a – ah 😂👨 y'a – have-do-tu v-have-have you seen that? 🔫💰 have you seen this? have you seen this? 🔥✨ ciborium! orgore it 👌💻 tabarnac! argargargargargôre! gâ if it is 💀🤕 easy! gâ 👀 if it's 🅾 easy! gâ 🐱🅾 if it's easy ... ciborium! was made ... gâ 💰 if it is 🔥 easy! ost – tabarnac! gâ 💰 if it's 🤕 easy! gargargargar-gôre, tabarnac! it's easy!! it fits like butter, like popa in moman. cursed côlisse! ... tobacco! tobacco! heille, a strong 👦 aut ', côlisse! 🔥🤕 ... we 🔛💦 kick a tabarnac
in caliss my tabarnaks! (not really)
🤢🤮
you did it! mad man indeed
in criss de finale tabarnak of month
finale dosti tabarnak
top 3 grandma that i saw on this sub.
high quality granny. it's perfect.
it was really funny today to read the intellectual gymnastics of the people on facebook who defended the owner for his mediocre salaries lol
sidenote, am you the only one to say that a “meeeme”…?
signature superiority appearance.
mchahahaha
i don't wrestle too much, what's going on with the pig's foot restaurant?
hahahaha
wow!
lol
love it
in my entourage, i have two people who have worked all their life in catering and had rather good positions in fairly rich and recognized places where they had the best working conditions that they have ever had in catering.
the two decided not to return there after the pandemic. ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯
eille, i'm not here to fight with anyone, but mcdonald's made a net income of c $ 5.952 billion in 2020 and to keep that kind of money they need employees at all costs. as a former employee i was treated like a shit with no raises after 2 and a half years and i wish no one would go through this. on the side of au pied de cochon, it's not a fast food, they have been hit by the pandemic, and if that happens the weather is hard for them.
nice bunch of demagogues, go and listen to arcand's interview at 98.5, you will understand that you have judged without trying to get to the bottom of things. it feels like the witch hunt of the early modern era.
show me your almighty power of negavote!
it is possible to post a minimum wage but to offer more to its employees the same. you don't have to keep it to the minimum. it's not a law.
i laughed out loud for real
it doesn't come from pig's trotters
> sidenote, am you the only one to say that a “meeeme”…?
it is pronounced the same in english. in french it is "meme".
jean-thomas jobin said that a long time ago to sous écoute and it became a meme. he thought it sounded like that. lots of comedians / podcasters say granny jokingly. there are still a lot of sous écoute listeners on this subreddit.
i say it like a grandmother, a granny (may-may)
'' meeme '' is the correct pronunciation in english.
with a tite voice?
says the person looking at the title of an article without knowing the bottom of the story and making mental shortcuts.
you know it's a job offer, you can turn it down if it's not right for you. and newsflash: a salary can be negotiated, especially in the current context.
hello there!
it has been revealed here that they pay their employee minimum wage, despite the fact that it is one of the most expensive restaurants in quebec. meanwhile mcdonalds pay their employee $ 4-5 more per hour.
basically they expect to have staff despite the low salary because it looks cute on your cv to have worked at pig's feet
they have enough money to start from other restaurants and a product line. if you are insecure, now is not the time to be expanding.
you don't get any more raise after 2 years at the pdc.
i guess you're not treated like shit. i dare to hope.
i listened to the interview and it was big media spin.
he tried to dismiss the attention on mcdonald's 4 times, in the same sentence he said the wages should have been "from" instead of $ 13.50 and i couldn't find any employees. .
he also said that he had to open a post because he had a chef who came from france, but no one came from elsewhere to be a chef, that time was over.
he said that if he put his wages at $ 13.50, it was because mcdonald's was doing it. when arcand told him that mcdonald's had raised his wages, he just replied that mcdonald's could afford it since it's a big chain.
he blamed his marketing team for deciding what salaries to display, relieving himself of responsibility, but refuses to name his own salary and says ip is involved in operations.
he also started by saying that business is going well.
it's not demagoguery and witch hunts. he publicly denounced the pcu and called on the government to intervene.
without going to listen to an interview that does not interest me you can explain.
you're right, to attract people we post a lower salary than what they are going to do.
big brain move
i don't know why everyone is downvoting it. he is not defending picard, he says to pay his employees more.
if you're jean-thomas jobin it's "grandma".
loves me
oh well, i wasn't aware that there was a designated pronunciation.
so a lot of others on this sub don't have the correct pronunciation either?
it also comes from memetics, so it's not that stupid.
to write the pronunciation of the english word * meme * in french, you write "meeme", but shouldn't you write something like "miiime" instead?
i work in a mid-range, we pay 16 + tip when leaving without experience.
nah guy, it's a bad mange.
general kenobi.
nice drain gang ...
it's not strong from the pied de cochon. on the other hand, if i understood correctly, the staff has a rating on tips, which you don't at mcdonald's. really unclear how much they would end up with, on average.
in fact, it's even worse, this salary was advertised on the equivalent of the job site quebec in france, in international recruitment ... crossing the atlantic for a salary of poverty in a city where you have to be a millionaire to be pay a healthy 3 1/2.
immigration marketing in quebec still has good days ahead!
it's worse than you even think, i have a friend who told me that the cooks are all paid a fixed salary of $ 100 / night even if they are working extra time.
or they expect it to be seen as a way of networking in a rich client's business.
i accept the comment
you have good selective listening, that's good.
you forgot to say that the people in the kitchen get an equal share of the tip, that the salaries are more around $ 18 and even more if you are a chef.
yep, an employee put the wrong thing on the job board because the option wasn't available. imagine the person who said to himself at that moment "oh no, i don't have the option" and + "i'm going to leave it like that i don't think it's serious. far from suspecting that the next day will cancel it culture would like to assassinate its boss in the public square.in addition to giving a radio interview, i don't think it's disempowering.
then even though the $ 13 was voluntary (and it wasn't). if i sell my old tercel for $ 40,000 you're not going to buy it and no one is forcing you, as no one is going to come and work for $ 13 an hour in times of job shortage. the market balances itself without even needing a bunch of no life outraged by trivialities.
like that, to attract people to a product, we advertise with higher prices than once in store…. #logic
apparently they would have written "from $ 13.50 based on experience plus tip", but the site only let them write a number.
lol
i think you're getting trolled. in real life, almost everyone pronounces “meme” the same way in english as in french. i sometimes hear "granny" used ironically too.
yes, but it's not really serious. as long as we understand each other.
[deleted]
19, 20 or even $ 21 depending on the owner.
i like that a joke with stihl. upvote.
va *
they make motorcycles too:
chezelle
iiiiiish.
(husqvarna also make motorcycles; it is more convenient to start than a mower)
how speak french
my favorite meme form.
makes me laugh every fucking time.
zetor laughing over it
[
holy shit it's perfect
the memes of poo quebecois are perfect!
she started in two steps three movements.
perfection
yioussekava *
oh you took lo toro by the horns to make your joke
sewing machines and rifles too ...
to
i knew they make motorcycles, a very well known name for off-roaders until it was bought out by ktm. i don't see my mother going on motocross ...
a husqvarna motorcycle, can we leave that in the yard?
chainsaws too!
so so
you'll make me laugh john at deere business as well.
get off my lawn, boy!
edit: lawn boy. geez!
a true master of his craft.
do you make little recorders there while you're at it?
style like yamaha. : p
my mom who motocross is just when my arms are broken.
* iiiissshhh. * let me ask my mechanic.
i have a swedish mauser (gun) made by husqvarna! there are a few companies that took part in the war effort in their respective countries during world war ii. in particular, general motors and international business machines (ibm) lent a hand to the manufacture of m1 carbine for the united states!
with my very limited french skills you appear to be saying so so but i swear it’s something else
it takes a lot of claas to make these jokes!
john asks again why we love him
godamnit, tin, an upvote for the reference, that made me laugh!
it starts in motocross these stories but it ends in fourresongars, uh i mean van, that.
as a mechanic, my answer is i have the dua.
^ all ^ placabes ^ my ^ motorcycles.
haha yes
but if you translate it literally, you get an answer to your question
how speak french?
> like this, like that
me, i laugh arians anyways.
ask john, go to the deer.
oh ok thanks lol i literally suck at the grammar part of french in school i always forget my accents
i'm listening to another brick in de walt
as a gang we should be a cub!
you tecumseh, you run on that.
stun little the same joke a second time
it's just a bit of a joke lol no worries
grammar is no joke, but secondary school french was oof
you will lower the makitappelle sound, however.
lol
we don't want ryobi jacob calling the police.
saint-louis du ha-ha! i think is the best example.
i'm still looking for st-clin-clin-des-meuh-meuh.
never forget.
i'm sooo happy to be living in qc again. this thread, your comments, makes me feel good. i missed qc so much in ab that i moved to st albert then morainville just to be in francophone communities, to feel at home again. thanks for the great post!!!
my brazilian wife considers quebec an unofficial member of latin america.
give back to the cities the amerindian names. it would be so much more beautiful and original than the catholic bullshit.
this is a relatively recent phenomenon; 200 years ago, the saints did not proliferate that much within the toponymic landscape of quebec; it was at the instigation of bishop bourget, a rabid utramontanist that the villages were renamed after saints.
quebec is in (holy)
when i was in the scouts, we had a summer camp in st-adalbert. there was another village nearby called bras d'apic (not sure of the spelling). its population was less than 12 inhabitants but the general store sold “université de bras d'apic” sweatshirts.
have us on the ascension-of-our-lord! i always had a soft spot for him haha
frankly, i love this little peculiarity of quebec
i am happy that quebecers have freed themselves from church and religion
saint-profond-des-creux
the villages were named after their parishes ...
family names that are names of saints, too.
st-pierre, st-jean, st-michel, st-thomas, etc.
have you already opened a french calendar? like, from france? every day is equivalent to a saint. each. day.
in english your meme? can you explain why?
a chance that they translated "quebec" for english speakers who would be confused by the accent 🙈🙈
no need to have the word saint in the name. for example, the village of l'ascension-de-notre-seigneur-jesus-christ
universite du quebec a montreal a laval.......vs......universite laval a quebec.  those are my favorites.....  oh.  and laval quebec said backwards is still quebec laval.
which is strange, because i believe that you do not want (or no longer) saints in quebec.
in yes. renowned in fact for their bbq chicken or none other than st-hubert
this one is so bad it's almost good.
source: my mother comes from one of these towns, my uncle lives in a tit village called st-something too.
so much that we invented quite a few
solid
the town of trou-à-pepette
so, at "sainte-anne-des-plaines" ... was she a saint who did not have a lot of breasts?
quebec is the colony that was most denominated by france in honor of its saints. naturally, lac saint-jean had a name, piékuagami, before jean ventured there and devoted himself.
amateurs: saint-séverin-de-proulxville
have is not really original: /
saint-coin-coin de nowhere
when i lived in quebec, we went on a road trip with some friends, one of them was from quebec. we made fun of the names of the cities on the road because there were so many that are named for saints. then we came across a city called something like "saint marie de saint marie" and even the quebecer laughed at it aha
was literally just thinking this the other day. it's not just the places either, the street names too. there are like 4 streets in montreal that do not contain the word "holy".
we laugh we laugh, but there is a village called le trou in montérégie.
and yet, many quebecois deny their latin-american roots even though they speak a latin language, they had strong ties with the catholic church, and they are located in: america.
it is normal in the catholic countries of latin america
every school i went to had saint- im front of it. lol
saint-neant
between two saints, you are well ...
when should you explain your meme in a 3-line xd title
i remember that when i went to france, people found the religious names of us beers, such as unibroue, to be particular.
slaps nouveau brunswick: there's saints everywhere in the north here god damn
'how many places start with "saint"?"
"yes"
precious-blood is quite morbid.
notre-dame-des-ouch!-ouch!-ouch!-ouch!-ouch!-ouch!-ouch!
(10 points to whoever gives me the list.)
st-georges (in beauce) is named after its founder, a german named georges pozer (johann georg pfotzer for close friends) who is not at all a saint. how many of the same?
the joke on my hockey team when i was 12 ... "i'm from sant-sulpice", "ah, you're from pisse-sul-sein!" ...........
saint sacrament is the most quebecois name because when you see the issues facing the provincial government, we are like<que'ce que legault faaaaaaa, saint sacrament?!>
it is the same with the state of california.
my compliments to the owner. st'une osti of beautiful pool water for april 21.
it's normal that everything is frozen, it was april 20 yesterday.
this is the high quality content that we all want to see
worse, are you 90 at the pool?!?
part 2, my gang of you guys [ danemark(
after 4/20
snow/20
heated swimming pool, or are you a real one?
absolute madlad
now we want another video but with you in the water and not on the water!
please !!! 😁
maybe my vision is playing tricks on me, but i don't see a staircase leading to the swimming pool yet? does that mean op that you risked a long jump on the mattress at the risk of diving directly into the water?
 *op,  what is your wisdom*
it's the cooling of the planet!
what was abnormal was being able to swim in april ... snow on april 21 is unusual but more normal than the hot temperatures we had this month.
thanks i hate it. i am well under my heated blanket!
it's my birthday today (not the cake day, my real birthday). looks like i just deserved a snowstorm ...
one of my boyfriends has been bathing at 90 for two weeks. you don't have to go crazy either!
not gonna lie, i thought that was a llama at first before the camera zoomed in and i’m questioning my life choices rn.
[u / quikauxfraises] ( thank you ♡
you are a king :)
do you have a nice tan? lol
i guess this summer has not been a good summer
ahahah the damn white mustard 😅
how much was she? a good 5 celsius is not wrong!
speak to me in steps! there is snow on the pavement worse chu in taboir summer tires! what do i do ?! hahaha how to die prematurely!
there is still january
what is he doing.
what the f*** is he doing!!
bruh i got so fucking angry when i saw snow today
you are popular. i posted the video on 9gag
[
thanks thanks,
years of experiments with green water, algae and unpleasant junk maintenance.
yes hat!
good one  😏
yes. thanks for the you-know-what break.
a nice big 46!
madlad
a real, a beautiful pool well warm at 46 ° f
a butter dish would cost to start heating in april.
and there you go! [ marge(
i'm going back right now
it is a semi-inground pool so it is not very high, most of it is underground. but otherwise, that's a good way to get into my pool;) [ danemark( )
it's nice, you can go slide! or bathe ...
except that unfortunately my pool is not heated :(
above all, do not look at the expense ...
that is actually really funny, because i bought an inflatabled llama with the inflatable lolipop i'm on 
it’s nice!
getting some fresh air feels good, especially when it's so hot
my father always said that leaving her early will save you a lot of trouble.
i learned the lesson and bought a house without a pool.
it does crounch when op jumps in.
that's what i call courage!!! almighty men!!
🤣🤣🤣🤣 all right! party!
mine is not gone yet. on the other hand, i bathe from the moment i leave it until the time i close it. nothing better than jumping in water at 52-54 ° f !!!
i’m laughing so hard i’m crying right now this couldn’t have come together any better if it were planned at all
i am more able to see entrepreneurs bawling. today an article on the hotel industry which refuses customers for lack of employees. no one threw their career in the trash for the pandemic. you chose to offer jobs. fine, it's your choice ... but when your world isn't crying, for example.
costco strangely, they don't lack of people.
to be in business is to "risk your capital and your efforts". to risk means that you don't win all of the time. otherwise it would be called aristocracy.
the level of pre-pandemic unemployment had reached historic lows, and we can already see that it will return quite low. there is already very, very little labor available. so clearly no one is going to retain a poorly paid employee with no benefits when there are thousands of other jobs nearby. it's not rocket science, eh.
everything is increasing.
salaries: lol
the old shop where i worked for 6 years have such a hard time keeping their employees that they just gave everybody a raise of $ 2 an hour despite the agreement that was signed there only one years old and which is closed for 6 years.
you start at $ 17 / hr as an assembler. do you want workers? me do 40 / h week with intense production pressure for a starving salary f ** off.
very relevant, considering that today in cpe we have just received the offer from the government which is big, big shit.
the cpes are overflowing, some are closing because there are no more educators, the techniques are empty, but nooooon we ignore the problem completely. the tee technique is literally the lowest paid of all techniques, and all we asked for was an equalization with the other lowest cuddly technique.
basically, going from a salary scale of $ 18 to $ 25 to one of $ 21 to $ 29.
well for those who are interested, we are offered a 12% increase over 4 years and later we'll see like. well fuck it, we're going on strike.
sorry, rant over.
"young people don't want to work" no shit, that's what everyone is paid for. not many people who work just for fun.
\ - '' young people don't want to work! '' - a 50-year-old who paid his huge house $ 50,000 and spends his days in a big office doesn't know how to use excell at $ 125,000 / year.
nobody wants to piss off at minimum wage being insulted by the anti-mask karen at super c. or $ 16 an hour in a bell call center for the same reason. of course, there is a shortage of manpower when the rents are too expensive and the job is to make you yell at you by the idiots.
if your business plan doesn't include a competitive salary, it's not a good business plan. your employees are not there to be in a hurry like lemons while the entrepreneur gets rich alone on their backs.
[deleted]
in fact, we are faced with a double problem. the post-pandemic and the government measures, okay, but there's also the fact that the boomers are retiring. when i started working, there were 7 workers for one retiree. in a few years, we will be 2 workers for each retiree. on either side, it's going to be complicated. personally, i expect a wave of hyper inflation worthy of the 70s. moreover, i very much doubt that i will be "entitled" to a retirement one day, i am in my mid forties.
there is a concept in human resources, i forget the name, which explains that when a large company is not able to retain its employees, the best leave and the worst stay. this is one of the reasons why large companies end up failing.
i can confirm that this is happening at the large quebec company where i work. we are poached by smes which pay 10-20k more on salaries of 60-80k.
it's time to update your cv and check elsewhere. fuck loyalty.
shortage of manpower, or too many jobs? maybe your small suburban town doesn't need 4 fast food restaurants?
my french is improving, because i understand this joke.
construction will miss 25,000 workers per year. we just negotiated our agreement and we managed to have a big 2.05% per year for the next 4 years. we can no longer even go on strike, it takes 3-4 days and the government introduces a special law to force us to return.
if the salary followed the rent increases ...
young people = 40-year-old millennials?
git real or git rekt, employers!
it's because the damn young people waste by buying too much beer and ipods, you understand. [minimum wage + half a piasse] for years is an entirely reasonable wage for a specialized field and if you whine you're just a valiant step
boomers are leaving jobs that require few qualifications, while young people, who are less and less (excluding immigration), are educating themselves more and more ...
young people are stealing my dream of having my business and being my boss!
and the other side there are us auditors in cabinet with a baccalaureate, dess, cpa who are paid the same, but, it is an esti of good work experience (/ s the last part)
both can be true at the same time.
young people today have different values and don't want to make too many sacrifices for work.
good for them, employers today don't give a damn about their employees so they don't deserve any loyalty or extra effort.
i would rather work less than earn more
i have to admit that as a 30 year old guy who makes a good living but was making $ 24 an hour 4 years ago as a graphic designer with 5 years of experience ... it was off-putting to see people being offered $ 20-22 for work that wasn't even 2 years ago was being done for $ 15 / h. i don't necessarily believe that it's only jealousy that i feel, there's something absurd all the same when it comes to the fact that you can do as much by working as a diver in a restaurant as an accountant coming out of there. 'university. i don't know how the market is going to position itself, will wages fall again and people will go back to work when the pcre stops in september? may be. are all jobs going to gradually increase in salary to level up? i doubt. curious job market currently anyway.
chu so able.
i am 32 years old, more than 13 years of experience behind the tie at the administrative level and all the esties of job offers post assistant salaries at $ 15-16 per hour.
sacrament, are you kidding me?
in my opinion lower taxes, and withdraw 100% taxes on overtime (after 40 hours). this will allow employers to be able to breathe more because a smaller portion of the employee's salary will be withdrawn (instead of earning 75 cents per dollar, if he has less tax, he could earn eg 90 cents per dollar. dollar) and at the same time, encourage the world to work more. because right now, overtime is being eaten up for quite a while in the year. the big wages will lead to zero if the taxes stay this high, there is no point in paying dearly.
we all get picked up. it has 0 incentives for workers to work apart from the good joke of giving it 35% tax per week. thanks bye
all you have to do is install windows and table football in the cafeteria !!!
which minister is the one who brought out this pearl, i forgot if it is federal or provincial
fire
my job does not happen to have a team leader because that gives a bonus of only 50 ¢
team leader is a lot of work, management and paperwork, i am a concierge
the “entrepreneurs”:
quickly, no more immersion so that i can run my 4 subway in a city of 20,000 inhabitants 24/24 7/7
my 16 year old daughter applied for jobs (possibly her first) like canadian tire, fast food ... nothing fancy. not a single place contacted her! i think that in some places, the people in charge of recruiting are just incompetent!
the revenues of the company where i am we were in the negative for 1 year ... it is a small company which cannot afford to increase our salaries ... but i am loyal because what is important to them and to my local economy .. be understanding of your small businesses, and above all stop asking for more for less. i don't count how many people are asking for "compensations" because we had to close during the covid ... it's fucking not easy
i have a podcast in which we talk about work dynamics, and we did a special on that. one of the most fun episodes to do.
some leaders don't differentiate between "not wanting to work" and "not wanting to work for them".
yeah, we're disguised as pirates. deal with it.
the two. remember that the caq was elected by promising to lower the immigration threshold, which they did.
or too cheap customers?
\ [laugh at vfq \]
but if we do not bring in another workforce, the companies will crown their camp, less job, less competition, wages go down and we have a smaller economy, we need a balance
so much fucking this. #preach
it just goes to show that we don't need a law to raise the minimum wage. it can go up on its own without the state
“you pay up to $ 23 an hour for a maid. before, it was between $ 16 and $ 17. in the market, it's around $ 20. i put myself above to have some, and to have the cream, indicates the big boss, jean audet, who deals with a subcontractor for the maintenance of his rooms. ''
you pay below market price and do business with a subcontractor.
itt: people no longer want to pay taxes, but want to keep the same profits they already have
they have to fight against $ 2000 a month to stay with you and do nothing, let's say it's pretty unfair competition. the manpower problem was there before pcu (or whatever name it has now) but it is even worse. before the pandemic, i had never seen a person get hired and not come home on the first day. there, there are more people doing that than anyone showing up.
responding in english cuz why the hell not also i’m from alberta bonjour
please, take care of your french, respect our language brothel!
its takes a law to be impossible to be a billionaire. it would help everyone.
amogus
no longer do the younger ones get ecps.
it's the pku that's the problem now, according to my sources.
seeing the comments in this sub, we can clearly see that there are people who are part of companies in quebec or have managed businesses. snowflakes who want to earn $ 30 an hour and want to work 10 hours / week!
you should read "entrepreneur à etat pure" by nicolas duvernois, it illustrates quite well the difficulty of starting a business in quebec.
say the young people who have never worked ...
[deleted]
so infuriating. i worked for many years for one of the hotel chains represented in the article. i can guarantee you that it is not the owners who are going to type the 12 hours, back to back shifts, to be yelled at at the counter because nothing is ready / up to par. these are not the ones who find themselves making rooms when they don't provide enough. i don't see how business owners can expect employees to do more than those who benefit from the profits with their hands in their pockets. how can they be surprised by the shortage of manpower? it's easy to complain that "nobody wants to work" when you offer such a taxing job with no benefits. if at least they respected their employees it wouldn't be any worse. i left at the end of last summer and i don't mince words that it was a turning point for my physical and mental health.
haaaaaa cé good lé potatoes !!!
yen a at iga
41 message in the discussion thread and nobody asked you kessé you doing in malaysia?
nice. but what did you take as a sauce? a limited the sauce is delivered in cane or sachet.
fyi cheese curds are easy to make yourself! it's "curds" or some kind of pre-cheese. it is obtained in the process of making homemade mozarella.
i make it with quebon 2%
when i lived in dubai i took halloumi, but it only melts at high temperatures.
menoum menoum!
i hope it is good? when i went to thailand, i went to bruno blanchet's restaurant and let me tell you that his poutine was not edible!
thanks for the advice to bribe a cheesemaker! i am in sri lanka for 1 year, i have powdered sauce in my luggage, but i was missing the logistics for the cheese in droppings! enjoy!
bruno?
well done!! i love kl and i went there several times with my fiancee, and the last time i had to bring cheese curds in my luggage to make me a poutine there haha. because it is true, it is not found there. what saves did you use? i had found bags of brown sauces from australia to make a sort of brown sauce.
does it equal that of quebec?
in return, is that kacang ais in quebec?
😋
how did you go about finding some? did you make a deal with a farmer to make it to you? or is it a normal food in kuala lumpur?
slow golf clap, remarkable! i lived 6 years in europe and in the end i was so desperate that i tried to make cheese poop myself ...
in your special cheese order, did you have a lot? if so, you can freeze the excess for the next poutine.
woo-hoo! i'm malaysian, and last year my family came to visit, i introduced them to real poutine. can you share the cheese dairy's instagram page?
wait it's called cheese curds !? i always called it squik squik cheese or cheese poop
looks like he's sweating cheese
hey!
how heap found !!!?
i would kill for a poutine right now.
criss diet esti.
the ingredients look legit, but the serving size is severely deficient haha.
congratulation! poutine, i miss it a lot, but i am far from finding the ingredients (except the potatoes) here in turkey. 🇹🇷 i have to wait to come back to quebec for that. 😐
that looks legit!!
cheddar curd, that's just it
reminds me of when i ate it at bruno blanchet's restaurant in bangkok
[deleted]
pity your fries, it looks like they are undercooked
this is the way.
guys, please help somehow reddit turned into french.
its disgusting area
mozzarella is not enough as a substitute?
it's good in the belly
especially in ste-agathe
hahaha if only there was one in kuala lumpur!
hahahah dude lost stiff
[deleted]
for work i have been there for 2-3 years. i was super happy to be in a part of the world where i could easily travel in lots of countries .. let's say that this part fell through!
exactly what i wanted to ask !! op kossé are you doing there?
while this is not the time to take non-essential trips, you should not fall into the witch hunt either. there are many entirely legitimate and essential reasons that justify traveling abroad despite the pandemic, which is why airports have never been closed. it is just as impossible as closing ports and land borders to our economic partners.
you have to give yourself the benefit of the doubt even in difficult times.
it is uneasy
work / travel / who cares
i found sachets of australian "gravy", it wasn't perfect but it worked. as long as the cheese is good for me, the sauce doesn't have to be perfect
i've been in germany for 5 years and can't find any. you are going to give me this calvasse recipe.
we want a process! a recipe!
uh, i think it's easier and shorter to take the plane, buy cheese than to make it yourself. 1) you need raw milk 2 (you need to brew at low temperature for like 12 hours ... fuck that
> quebon 2%
arck!
coaticook da best.
you can always grill it before putting it in your poutine. i think i'll try this!
criminal code of canada
130 (1) every person commits an offense who
(a) falsely presents himself as a peace officer or public officer;
this is what we call "looking for the mard".
* the police arresting the police -2021 *
no right to buy linen because it is not essential, my pig costume was the hottest thing left for me, agent!
what triggers me is the spelling on this thing.
* he is disguised as a pig and he walks his dog *
* there were 3 police tanks *
[
he made a video of it
what a waste of our tax money
"place"
he was 950m from his home via the gym x shortcut !!
childish.
it’s really funny.
why did the police arrest him if he was walking his dog?
it's the best thing in the world.
but what is this “florida man type post?”
we should have better things to do than laugh about the serious stuff.
look at new zealand for example.
(this message to the fonts the pig and the person who created this post)
god bless this person! maaaaan,  this is perfect!
after that the world is complaining that the police do not stop hitting us for nothing ?? the only cellar in the video is him. in addition, he purposely goes to the limit of his radius of 1km to piss off the police and lengthen the process. so stop wasting their time trying to find their limits, they have more important things to do. the irony in all of this is that the police are there to reinforce the laws that have been put in place for our security ... and if you do not agree with these laws it is with the government authorities that you should go about it, not with the cops.
i am very pretty, the word for the police is pig also in french. i thought you were missing something.
"sir, do you know that it is forbidden to walk your pig at this time?"
"crisse pk the fkn popo its always on my do"
are just jealous of his uniform 😂
there's the right to have his dog!
it's a change from the spvm police officer who told me on saturday that covid was not so contagious that it was worse than i was exaggerating (yes yes i filed a complaint at my neighborhood station)
they are quick to cry to piss off the citizens, but pound their asses when we point out to them businesses which are wiping out red zones and restrictions and have the office full of employees, and parties watered down in the evening.
when you have a happy and super busy life, this is obviously the one and only thing you have to do with your parties.
pathetic.
criss which must be cave. if they want to give you a ticket they'll find a reason, don't worry. osti fool who is not able to make a small sacrifice for 4 weeks for the common good of the community.
and, just like that, i turned into a draft barrel
this is probably the funniest shit i've seen, osti que'j'ris tabarnak
... or take your domestic rat for a walk with a miniature boot and a little red and black checkered coat with a leash !!! 😁 🐀
in practice i agree, you are looking for shit you will find it. ** but on principle ** i find it disgusting to "victimize" this guy.
if he does nothing illegal why he gets accosted by three police vehicles ...
the font is sensitive so it is easy triggered as well.
stune good joke i think.
😂
yes i suffered a besherelle attack while reading this ...
> what triggers me is the spelling on this thing.
"trigger"
me too. i said "yer deguiser" in the english way in my head before i understood.
it is rare that the spelling is correct on repost of stories, it almost seems that people are doing it on purpose.
same thing for me. but this is not surprising.
haha yea i don’t know who is responsible for that 😂
* vehicles
tabarnak that it looks like bs
the full live here:
[
they’re collecting huge fines in order to compensate for the lack of traffic tickets in the past year.
what a waste of a pig costume
oi this is the first comment in english scrolling down and lol it's some guy complaining about his tax money. l. o. l.
yarrrr
it was a quality stream
welcome to reddit!
sense of humor?
having a dog is not an automatic right to curfew .... you still have to be 1km from your home
are they just talking? we have 0 details.
the calligraphy is impeccable.
it has a very nice writing foot.
really an ace to have made the letters fit perfectly and proportionately
there is an update
i am an anglo, but i french very well
what a beautiful proof of love
thank you!
she must have some damn nice breasts
this dudes footwriting is better than my handwriting
your breasts are worth in complexion.
i miss your thighs, i miss your eyes, i miss your breasts, do you miss mine?
melody under the snow
hello lolos!
a big romeo there
i would have laughed if he had written "nipples".
hero
eyes!!!!
for us english folk, it's "breasts".
you should see the rack in mine 👌
you write better in the snow than i do on paper
melodie i like your what? are seins?
r/eyebleach
ahh, r / beatmetoit. i wanted to write the subreddit in french in joke but i couldn't find a translation that made sense other than “me beaten a”
beautiful foot feather!
> perfectly and proportionately
like mélodie's breasts.
i write on cardboard and always have to squeeze the last 2-3 letters on the right. he or she writes in the snow, perfectly framed, without error.
wtf
> melody
> i love your ~~ breasts ~~ personality
[...]/.compact
the fuck is this? lol
maybe not at first but now they can only beautify.
boobs, knockers, tits, hooters, bazookas, bazongas...
who tf asked
i want to see. i want to see !!
#boobs
/r/boobies
r / faster than me?
good another poet!
pics? sauce?
the important thing is that they don't smell like scotiabank!
don't worry, you're normal. we can't all be supernatural artists with a deal with the devil to do the black magic required to aesthetically put a line on a line.
that's why our predecessors used their nerd powers to invent keyboards and justified text!
several personalities, it promises to be fun!
“lady in the streets, freak in the sheets” comme on dit
who? to the left or to the right?
too long to write.
good question...
the old mobile version of reddit
thanks i figured it out earlier however
okayyy there's a reddit sub of tits🤔 me who came here to read ... 😂
r / batsmoiaca
edit: just to be clear, i'm aware that this literal translation doesn't make sense; it's a joke
and above all, you are never alone, which is practical in the event of medical confinement ...
variety is the spice of life! : d
> a sub
ahem.  
you have some catching up to do; sorry to feed your procrastination.
if it lasts more than 4 hours consult a doctor.
chtancorashop
chusuajob
chsul'chomage
* diamond monocle *: t'ajob
jwork
i missed the ouinie grannies!
pcu
or the "eujtajob" variant
i was promoted from bs to unemployed overnight
"chsajob" works itou.
there are those who say "my shif'fini in not long" while thinking * shift *, and there are those who say "my shif'fini in not long" while thinking * number *
"yes, i have all my time, i'm at work right now"
\ - some bureaucrat, of course.
i have already said, but are you someone who saves them all, there is a book to do with that.
brilliant.
beaucerons succeeded with 2 letters less; jwork.
linguistically it is a beautiful phenomenon. the secance "am au" has two vowel in a row so that the sentence does not flow well. we add the consonant '' t '' to cut the vowel secance and make it easier to say. it is the same phenomenon as in the expression "did he \ [... \]?" but in this case it is accepted grammatically.
j'jb
i love it, but i can't slang like this now
chtajob pis chu tanner sti
chtaljob
chtapreschier job
honestly, it's not bad as a method of teaching some common expressions of french spoken in quebec.
gro spas ger mainme po djob sua pcu
chuidanlditch
shtanoveur
aprassa is going to head, go and have a beer with my boyfriend, or i will have a look at my girlfriend.
chiersuajob is good too.
chsulbs
j'suapcre
pcre
edit: pcu is now closed, [see] (
low-vote on that ??
chtajob
tetajob
létajob
netajob
vzètajob
sontajob
when i worked in restaurants and people said number instead of shift, every time i was triggered.
the evening figure
i barely speak french and i found this funny.
"a t-il", aka "ya tu?"
it would take a joual bot (which would do like the shakespeare bot).
i think i know like 50% of what you said
su ... is that from the lake? :)
chtunbéess
perfect.
perl-compatible regular expressions?
** edit **: oh, deer! chuis trops anglo: p
a quebec grammar book should be made for the use of foreign francophones.
the joualverified bot.
after work, maybe i'll go have a beer at my friend's house, or i'll watch a movie with my girlfriend.
no ... from outside mtl
chsansabris
don't get us started on regular expressions. this sub is a haven of peace, or almost
#imperfect indicative:
jtaiajob
tetaiajob
yétaiajob
netionajob
zétiéajob
yétaientajob
#future tense:
jvaajob
tuvaajob
yvaajob
nallonsajob
zallezajob
yvonajob
but more precisely?
i don't hear that in lanaudière anyway :)
imperative: vaajob
i don't know what makes me laugh the most: the original video, the guy's comments, or the fact that they look too alike lol
"i just asked, we can visit the bus"
conversely, my daughters who grow up in canada are absolutely fascinated by trains and sncf when they go to france.
your head will split you ,, 🤣
a guy has the right to trip on the buses.
it reminds me of when i was a student and i worked in a souvenir shop in old quebec. not a day went by without a family of french tourists asking me if i had yellow buses in scale models. i never understood their fascination with school transport ...
the same tourists also asked me if i had "american trucks". i always told them no.
honestly, we are more than ten years later, and i still do not know what it eats in winter, an "american truck" ...
as a french canadian, i am in pls. my french side wants to be very small.
you have to understand, in france there are only male buses.
i would do the same in france with their sick train system🗿
the fascination comes from the fact that they don't have this at home! what makes a trip all of a sudden look like a movie set visit! the same thing happens to me when i go to the united states with the police officers 👮‍♀️ and their hats or to england with the men of arms!
seriously it's a bit like seeing the english double deckers for us, i can understand the enthusiasm of a frenchman when he sees a yellow bus for the first time, i don't see why i would go and say calm down like the other guy. tse at worst let people be happy.
same thing as tourists who are impressed by snow removal after a storm. for us it's commonplace and just a disturbance but for them it's quite a spectacle
yeah, there aren't any like that back home in europe, you don't understand, tourism is little everyday things ...
as a french person i fully understand his reaction. personally, i become a kid again every time i see a fire truck here. they are so big: o
and what do school buses look like in france?
in any case, he would be a lot less fascinated after a 6 hour trip on this bus because the school cannot afford to rent a passenger bus ...
how to recognize the french in montreal parks: they take pictures of squirrels.
after reading the comments. i am starting my tourist service in montreal next summer, special for the french. tours of the city in a yellow bus!
if you would see the school buses they have in france, it would be you guys who were going wrong.
they are luxury travel buses compared to yellow buses. the guy must fail because it's amazing that we have such uncomfortable and minimalist buses.
st '\ * a \ * bus !!!
perhaps it should be realized that having to take young people to school by school bus is relatively rare outside of north america and is the result of abysmal urban planning that results in centrally located schools. far too far from residential areas and too poor quality transit services for young people to use.
the head will split you ... lol
you're kidding, but as a french person seeing these yellow buses and visiting them is cult.
conversely, i laugh when you take pictures of the metro or the trocadero in paris.
to each their own.
your head will split open ... it deserves an emoticon 😂
i was going out with a french woman and she flipped over on the snow plows in winter.
does anyone know jean-michel martel here?
it'll look like a bus, pretty sure. xd
u / savevideo
canayin
it reminds me of a french friend. when i visited étretat, i put some photos on my facebook and he replied: "you see, we have a bored rock of it too and we are not making a big deal out of it!"
😅
the guys who have never seen anything
me, it's the trucks with beautiful colors with lots of chrome that fascinated me at the time and that i still love after 20 years here.
xd
u / savevideo
u / savevideo
well there, it's an autobusse ...
ahh estis de français!
canadian?
not all white people are alike
whites:
esti de français de marde 😂
extremely uncomfortable ... it's just shameful to leave our kids on such buses ... french buses from the 95s, renault, were 200x more luxurious and secure than these. i can't even imagine how comfortable and secure they must be now, compared to the yellow buses ... 
a bus. my boy.
piss off frenchie
omg french ppls o annoying
i had to watch a couple times before i realized it was a different guy 😅 i was confused why he was criticising his own video
kind to get in for real?
autocar spa un tintin ça caliss
at the same time, i took the bus from the city (quebec) last week with my daughters and they flipped so sometimes impressing young children is not the most difficult ...
we will say that european trains are quite impressive the same ...
a running train has above 400km / hc nice in criss.
for someone who has lived in france, the ability to be fascinated by the sncf must be something difficult to understand.
i confess that i was like a kid the first time i took a tgv and that i capture the sound it makes when two tgvs cross.
let the gars trip on the bus
nice apron
okay guys, i had the chance to try a pizza poutine, im telling you, its good. you can probably only eat 2 in your life if you dont want to die of a heart attack, but its good. so, good job pal.
also nice apron.
take all the negativity you receive for your poutine pizza with a grain of salt ... we're the nation who puts [spaghetti in pizza.](
you mean a pouzza?
beautiful enthusiasm, beautiful apron, beautiful family tree. not sure about the pizza though ...
> grand memere
🤣
she most be very talkative.
i love all of this! amazing!
love the apron!
[deleted]
i love everything in this pic!!!
this time, we will assimilate the *english* 
(nice apron by the way!)
love it when american members of our diaspora post on here! your apron is awesome! how was the pizza mon chum?
"grand memère" omg i love her already haha. the apron looks awesome aswell 👍
hope you spread that grade-a french-canadian seed as much as you can.
dude, you're even more quebecois than quebeckers.
i love pizza and love poutine... but, come on... don't mix dude hahaha
criss of genius him, poutine pizza :)
i think you just started a new nation-wide debate. well done!
nice apron buddy, actually looks really good, i'd be lying if i said that i wasn't a bit jealous ;)
ok, tbh poutine and pizza seems a very good combo in my theory.
ah! tabarnouche !! beautiful culinary mission. long live the grandmothers !!!
did you say poutine pizza? i think you're on to something
it's nice to see that your quebec roots are close to your heart 💙❤
i don't think there is anything more american of french canadian descent than a poutine pizza haha
sweetheart, it’s grand-mère or mémère. pizza looks amazing and apron is gorgeous. keep it up! c'est parfait!
youre one of us now!
first time i see this!
but the pizzaghetti is so good, so i would give it a try.
nice bro welcome back home
yeah, love that apron! rock on!
mmmm.
this is so wholesome. thanks for sharing!😊
i want a green card
hello this is a public service announcement. most fresh cheddar cheese curds preserve very well when frozen ! 
i just tried putting a fresh bag in the freezer, waited a month. thawed at room temperature and still, squish squish
poutine pizza? can i call this fusion food?
please share your pouzza/pizzine recipe!
america, that's cool in the end.
epic
based / based.
so, it's fries, la sauce, and mozzarella on a pizza crust? can't be bad! just needs the squick squick. ok, and hear me out, maybe it could be good with a michigan sauce, in a poutine italienne style....?
very cool!
as a resident of ontario and a former ninja turtle fanatic, let me telly you about quebec pizza.
the cheese, the dough, and the sauce are totally unique and some of the best in the world. i’m not one to go out of my way to compliment another province - but mom n pop pizza in quebec is my favourite in the world.
nice pizza udder nice chemist's coat the big one
everything look good man 😎🤩👍🏻
hello from west canada👍🏻
awesome! :)
can tell this is authentic because of the use of the word mémère. i had à mémère too who was 5’ tall and managed to cook enough food for 10 kids every day. they don’t make ‘em like that anymore, tabarnak.
leave it up to an american to make the fattest canadian food fatter
tabarnak ... a poutine pizza ... who knew it?
ok
cringe pizza
not all the anglophones, only the ones who think québec is a store and they are the customers.
it's me, an anglophone who now lives in quebec.
i'm an anglophone in quebec, i speak real shitty french, but i fucking love it here.
i'm american. and, english speaking american fuck too. why not? fuck most people. i like quebecois. i like this sub.
long live francophones outside quebec, many of us support your noble cause.
me in the us reading this sub
wow, there's quite a few americans on this sub eh?
my 5 years in edmonton taught me more about the states than what happens in quebec ... a good example when i finally came back i didn't know who marie-mai was but she was at the bell center ...
pq are there so many americans on this sub hahaha
anglophone in quebec and with all the stuff you hear, it is still the best part of canada in my opinion.
me, an anglophone: 
in all seriousness my dad could only speak french, without y’all i wouldn’t be canadian to begin with
truth.
chui albertain.
came here for the comments. wish i understood them.
😂 which part? im in yeg
i am an english quebecer,  born and raised.  if i don't bother you,  you don't bother me
i lived in scarborough, ontario for a few years and it sucked.  i moved home   peace
me, a chick from northern maine now living in southern arizona reading this sub.
this is me
i feel personally attacked.
i can only speak about food in french does that count?
hahahaha so much
i also mdr.
i don't know the problem with the two languages. we can use both at the same time ...
omg doug wilson in weeds! good choice of template!
omg doug wilson in weeds! good choice of template!
omg doug wilson in weeds! good choice of template!
this thread is wholesome ❤️
i let the paranos of the disappearance of french piss, they have lost the pleasure of speaking for want of rejecting the other language!
btw, nothing is cuter than an anglophone canadian accent in french. it goes from adorable to fun to straight up hot. everyone has an accent no matter what language they speak anyway, aren't we all from different places after all?
yeah, jacques parizeau wanted to stick it to "money and ethnic votes"
if you were living in quebec, even today, plenty of "pure laine" would see you as a foreigner and treat you rudely.
if you live in the mtl suburb of lachine as a chinese person, they don't hear you say lachine, and they want you to go back to la chine.
trust me, i know.
are they supposed to just grab the poutine then?
so canada is actually karenada?
ok i have to use this metaphor in the future
but there are stores there. i go there to stock up.
so like...tourists?
me too, i am an american now, but i married a quebecer miss :)
welcome to quebec.
+1 here too
as long as you try and you're not a jerk when the world speaks french, that's okay. it's the world who laugh at francophones, who expect services in english here (whereas if you want to be served in french in vancouver / toronto, good luck. but we live in the same bilingual country) and who tries to impose their annoying language. if you understand and respect that the world speaks mostly french here, all good. if you try to speak french it's even better, but we understand that french is not exactly the easiest language to learn too.
i would’ve written it in english, but i didn’t want to just assume you don’t understand french and switch to english, as this is something that annoys a lot of people trying to improve their french (and i understood from your comment this was somewhat your case). if you don’t understand, it would be much appreciated if you could use google translate. i will answer in english if asked to, obviously.
props to you if you even try! though most of us native french speakers do speak a bit of english so it’s not all that bad
we love you too!
i like this american.
<3
moé i love you bro
jaaavouu
the number is surprising sometimes. i didn't even know there were french schools in toronto before i moved there, but there is a good little french community here.
what about those who have mostly made the switch to english? except for around family and some friends? 
are we heretics for preferring it?(mostly just because french writing structure annoys me). 
—-
on an unrelated note, why doesn’t québec invent a better way to write it? it wouldn’t be the first time the french written language has been changed throughout history. the lastest update sucks! lol. you guys could do way better than what france did. 
—-
edit:
this ted talk explains it much better than i can. it’s pretty funny as well as informative and worth the watch.
hmm yes, the frenchies do seem to be speaking french
why ?
but why?
from where?
r/québec is the cool kids table of the american continent on reddit. i'm in the other subs. so. boring.
everyone one here is so funny, raw and chill.
shhh, we don't talk about marie mai with americans and canadians.
we wash our dirty laundry as a family.
almost every anglo i know in montreal ended up learning french honestly, it's just that it takes forever to really master the language. learning french is not like learning english.
1. people are "naturally" less exposed
2. the language is frankly more complicated
and we are not even talking about reaching a level that is sufficient to work in a corporate context. i haven't met a single anglo who has reached a level of total fluency in french in less than 6-8 years (never full-time obviously since people have to work to live).
to pretend that it is possible faster than that is counterproductive i find, people end up being discouraged that they cannot get there "fast enough".
kevin brunure, how about you?
small parenthesis: learning french but avoiding opportunities to practice does not greatly advance language learning.
you never learn a language better than when you are forced to speak it. spending a month in south america and having to jabber spanish because no one speaks to you in english does wonders for learning the language of cervantes.
you might have done yourself a favor at the time but you haven't helped him in the long run, let's say.
why don't you just tell her to come to this subreddit? crisse mon français a nettement amélioré. christ. i don't know why every one just doesn't bang one another. there's enough hate fucking between the two languages. mais merde, literally we argue about acquiring a skill. and then you will say:  ben là protection de la langue. yeah you're right. fucking protect the language and the skill. you have some funny ass comedians. and don't even remind me about our national treasures rémy fucking girard and marc labrèche. jesus christ. anglos don't know comedy like these guys. fucking drôle en asti.
did you take the opportunity to make him practice or was not really the time given the challenge of your so-called leonine mop?
> while his quebec boyfriend did not have the patience to chat to him in french
treat me like a * simp * but if my girlfriend came from london to settle in quebec on purpose, i would make a little effort lol
eh?
kess that a smart post here?
worse, who is not about the covid?
what year is it
a particularly leonine mop ... / slow clap i am impressed by this level of french. i'm in the same boat too, telecommuting every day so i don't give a damn about my appearance. right now i must sound like a bass player in a rock band. leonine mop represent yo!
honestly i love bilingual convos, it gives me so much pleasure to discuss something in big detail with someone else in my mother tongue, and the other person in their mother tongue. it's just easier and more natural for each person, and i think the majority of the world finds it easier to listen to another language than to speak it.
but, that said, i am english speaking. i try to speak french whenever possible.
my ex came here from alberta and only met nice people who encourage his first grade french. he always tries himself and it is appreciated.
everyone have their unique story.
i make a comment of appreciation. i really liked this post which kept me entertained for a few moments. what a pretty feather! thank you.
the primary reason i read this sub is to improve my french, and this post delivered. i learned at least 3 new words. hostie!
what is the subject of your master's degree?
that's always what happens, our english is better than their french. we accommodate all the time because we do not especially want to look like the racist quebec villain, and we also say to ourselves “basically, it's not really serious”. she works hard on her french in the hope of obtaining her residency but does not practice with her boyfriend or with her clients🤷‍♂️
montreal i imagine?
damn, a discussion on / r / quebec that admits that it doesn't matter what kind of noise you make with your mouth as long as we understand each other?
what a breath of fresh air
i have no opinion on all of this. but i feel the need to express the enthusiasm that lives in me when you tell your story. fak that's it, good evening.
i recently had a similar experience at a tim hortons. i show up with an old gift card:
"hello, i would like to know if there is any money left on this card."
i hand him the card, and he looks at me confused. "sorry, you want to pay with that?"
"oh. no, i want to know if there's money left on it."
obviously new and not knowing how to go about it, he asks his colleague a question, who ends up making me go to the cash register next door. during this time, he takes the order of the next customer in french without problem. i tell myself that i did well not to do a scene.
wow i just wanted to check if you were correct phew ... in english? not everyone recovers from this sort of thing.
hahaha wow i thought i was triggered by someone who is crying who is served in english. you got me. good post.
in these cases, i make a deal with them.
they do their best to speak french and on my side i practice my english. sometimes it's tough, but in the end it's win-win.
it's good to see that i'm not the only one with excess hair and mastery procrastination!
i have no problem getting served in english even though my first language is french. english is much more practical all over the world. people should be more open-minded.
i got scared reading the title
there aren't enough people who appreciate the efforts that people like that can make. as long as a foreigner makes an effort to learn the language, that's enough for me.
i understand her boyfriend because i am in the same situation with my boyfriend. teaching your spouse is not easy. correcting the other in pronunciation and all the exceptions is not easy and it takes up space in the life of a couple. my boyfriend did some francization but we rarely have conversations in french.
off-topic but your use of the simple past is refreshing
> this anecdote has no other interest than that of helping me procrastinate my mastery, thank you for reading me.
thank you for helping me procrastinate my mastery <3
expensive procrastine, procrastine!
this sweet news was delectable. i look forward to reading from you!
i read your post with mbc's voice in my head.
i love the way you write! very entertaining to read. also, your story is a great example of being careful not to jump to conclusions too quickly, not just about english, but about life in general.
my girlfriend is a french teacher and it's not the first time i've heard such a story. i know a girl who speaks english to her boyfriend on the pretext that it's not her job to teach him french.
worse, it's tough enough to learn quebec french. language courses are generally rotten because the teachers don't want to teach "bad" french which is the french spoken every day, and the world in general switches to english to make things go faster.
my girlfriend made a video about it, if you allow me the plogue:
[
i am in sherbrooke and my teacher in the private college (teaching in english) where i go is of serbian origin and immigrated to quebec about 3 years ago. when he arrived, he did not speak french at all, but spoke english. from the start, he put a lot of effort into integrating into our society, learning french. even though his french is still far from perfect and still has to work, he continues to make an effort to learn the language and to speak french when he goes to the shops.
but it often happens that people judge him or complain about the quality of his french / his accent when he is simply trying to accommodate the person in front of him. he even told me that it was not uncommon for him to be looked at crooked, then whining because he was speaking english with someone around him. sometimes it's like he feels unwanted.
and what angers me the most is that the people who have judged him or have complained have no idea how hard this man is working to integrate into quebec and learn french. people tend to judge too quickly.
that is without counting all the administrative problems he had to face. from the first year of his arrival in quebec, he could not even join a francization class (even if he wanted to), because he had not obtained a certain document (which is only obtained after one year). and a half studies in quebec). unfortunately, he had to do it alone.
until recently, it took everything so that he could integrate a francization class, because the latter were too full and his french was considered "too good" to be able to join a group right away. while he and i know very well that he needs to improve in french.
in short, all this to say that we tend to judge anglophones / allophones too quickly as to their mastery of french when we have no idea of the efforts they are making. not to mention that the francization system seems to be failing at a certain point.
ps: i know that it's not all people who are disagreeable towards non-french speakers, but it's still too much and it's a shame. because of the history of the quebec people, some have developed a fear of english and other languages and just have no tolerance.
moé who speaks in english with madame du dollarama, who she speaks in french to her boss. chu not even bilingual astia !? \\ (o \ _o) /
i didn't know that being chilled to the point of crying out for bill 101 and french could be positive for our language.
i smoke 8 bats and i come back to you.
at pizza pizza de longueuil on boulevard roland-therrien, the employees do not speak french, although i insist on speaking and answering them in french. perfectly bilingual, i could turn simply transfer to the language of shakespeare but on principle, i persist in speaking to him in french. i would prefer an approximate je pas parler français rather than someone answering me in english after having said: hi, are you okay?
i never thought i would have fits of the french language but criss que ça m'énarve.
it is a good effort to avoid (us) passing for bad guys. i try to make a deal with those who have difficulty speaking french: we speak in french and when we don't understand each other, we will switch to english. it may sound funny, but if the person is honest and wants to learn french, they will accept. if she refuses, i go out (without turning everything upside down) and i bring my pennies elsewhere! simply.
i think farting a lead only proves to the other that we are mardes. when we hold our point but do it gracefully, the other is more likely to see things from our point of view.
you already have more iq to have reacted in this way than the majority of french pro! nice job op
anything to help you procrastinate on your mastery boy!
but seriously, good job for your patience. she may be told by others, but i find it hot that she works so hard to fit in. yes her boyfriend is a little cucumber not to help her anymore.
ok, but it is precisely the mentality of * i was served in english, and it was okay * that makes french take a step back like never before in quebec.
well me, i went to an arab, in côte-des-neiges, who had no trouble shaving me in french.
wow you're like my twin! an eloquent post, a love for the french language, do a master's degree with a subject related to the environment and has elaborate strategies of avoidance and procrastination. a little more pi i insert the same of the 2 spider-man who point each other's indexes
spa hard, when you talk to your girlfriend in english, to plug a couple of terms in french through your speech.
after a couple of months you add more french words through your sentences.
at some point, you realized that you spoke to him in french but with english words throughout.
and one day ... finished.
you both speak french now
[deleted]
thanks for giving me another post to save me from working on my master's too.
i have the impression that i have already seen this post
gorgeous! a +
between air rance (not air france, we speak english there, it's very poo) and air quebec, each passing post is a new ode to our beautiful language even if i must say that i particularly like quebecois swear words.
it doesn't matter if his french is bad. the important thing is that she forces herself. we cannot simultaneously insist on the use of french and ask for impeccable french all the time. often times, when these people serve in english, it is not necessarily out of contempt, at least not necessarily primarily out of contempt, but simply because they are embarrassed, afraid to look ridiculous and to be laughed at. 'them others, which is quite understandable.
me i am served in english by my indi pizza delivery man (probably immigrant from ontario and move directly here. so they can skip the francophone flat end of canada.) who against caliss of french. i admit that it pisses me off on a long asti. tokebakicitte cawliss.
are you going to dare to post this on the newyork sub? 🤣
edit: yes! / u / montrealien you did it !! but / r / nyc is definitely more crowded than / r / newyorkcity. but that's okay, they're not happy anyway lol
edit: it's now on / r / nyc! now let's wait and see. i would put the gif of michael jackson who eats popcorn but not very good in reddit.
i'm from nj, and i ate the bagels in quebec (but not montreal). they are the best in quebec!
“i can eat this all day”
- captain america
fairmount ftw!!!
sad thought for the closing of o'bagel / délices d'antan at the jean-talon market, and their homemade cream cheese.
can someone explain to me the craze for montreal bagels? i'm not a connoisseur but i would like to understand why everyone is talking about it as the second coming of christ?
pastries, gathering!
bagel maguire >>>> the rest
unpopular opinion: bagels are just too hard donuts.
same with smoked meat.
the only time i ate it was after a cross country competition on mount royal. i remember thinking to myself that it's like i've never eaten a bagel in my life, it tastes like the sky. they're the santropol sandwiches with an inch of cream cheese per slice of bread and half a kilogram of wasp on the terrace. montreal is a city that knows how to let itself be loved.
but....which street 😂😂😂
and the house brand of super c is aunt may?
i only have one bagel left ... now i want to eat it ...
me, i approve.
bacon, i want to mention that it's not maple leaf / lafleur / marque selection or nos sincères excuses (our compliments). the bacon is pitiful then - my theory - is that the bacon is always disgusted when it falls into special.
f. ménard, product qc. 12 $ 1kg
yum bagels
faque there i move to montreal on july 1st. st-viateur bagel or fairmount bagel? opinions are divided according to my circle of friends.
true hole
[you are missing a floor] ( ...
i just eat local bagels;)
you dare if i wanted a salted doughnut maybe 🤔
bagel round-top in sutton. if you want the best in the eastern townships
yo rico! good one.
incorrect i'm from new jersey our bagels are the best final point.
bagel beaubien is the shit
i am montrealer and i can confirm
bagels, poutine or pate chinois......which of these do i consume the most of annually...... tough ass question.
bag them?
sorry but the brooklyn bagel is much better than the mile end bagel 🤷🏻
buggin
thanks to the jewish community
#multiculturalism
yes not the saint viator on the other hand. get rotten in 3 days
i'm canadian.  
i love the city of montreal.  
i love montreal bagels (st-viateur bagels!!!!)
new york city has the best bagels on the planet.
i lived 5 years in brooklyn, 2 years in montreal ... brooklyn wins.
where are the good baggels in montreal, is there a particular place?
dew it
lol, worth it anyway.
beautiful. i love you u/montrealien
lol, the world on r / newyorkcity are really frustrated. but these still just a fact that ours are better.
we must go high-vote these posts!
lol it was removed by moderators without reason
gorgeous
direct link?
i can not find it...
bagels on maguire
le jersey boy y'a crisement spoken.
the ass in those pants after eating the bagels 😆
well no ! st-viateur! ;) (hahaha this is the final debate inside the debate)
i second. a fan of fairmount, i loved o'bagel as an alternative.
they are very good.
the montreal bagel uses eggs in its recipe, it is traditionally shaped by hand. it is boiled in water with honey before cooking and finally the cooking is done in a wood-fired oven.
you can always go to the grocery store to buy bagels that come from outside quebec. : p
i did this once. it was super pasty and super dry at the same time. never again.
they were.
i do not know what makes me sweat more between that, and those who do not conjugate the verb to respond, for example "i did not respond".
the "si" rhymes with the "spoke" as in the sentence: i have a saw in the line
half of montrealers make the mistake, i doubt it is specifically peasant.
i say ice cream. fight me
if doesn't like re
one of the expressions i hate is "it makes sense", it's just a literal translation from english "it makes sense". in french, we say “that makes sense”. not badly all the franco podcast that i listen to make this mistake and it makes me cringe 😅
if i would have saved xd
in mauricie, there is a regionalism that makes my ears explode every time: instead of saying “it’s going to be” (it’s going to be / it’s going to be you), they say (it’s going to be).
if i would have horses that jousser
what makes me angry are those who say "i assume" to say "i think", "i suppose", "i take for granted".
gatineau gang, assemble
linguistic insecurity is * bin * strong * here *
hi i'm fle, what's the problem?
- fish if they don't like ray fish!
- are you serious that i sank my french because of two fish that didn't like each other's faces !?
i no longer correct people who use it, but when i hear it the effect is the same for me, only hearing fingernails on a green school board!
on the other hand, fuck the hypocrites who interrupt with hash like "ouch! my ears!" or "les si mangent les rè" without themselves speaking 100% international french like bernard derome on the news. well yes, well done, you finished your third year like all of us and you remember the little thing that madame chose taught you like all of us, and then you've just shown that you cuddle the content of the words of your interlocutor and you're there just to give you a little ego boost on his back with a * gotcha * of oral grammar
the sick edith, what.
you don't build in winter because the cement would freeze.
aristocratic writing: if i had
no longer know better ...
'' it got it '' bin of the allure
wouahahaha! excellent.
there are wordings where "if i would have" is not a mistake. but after that the world is all mixed up, i don't know if i should have talked about it.
i never can remember if the si likes or dislikes the spokes
the si eat the raises, but not me it doesn't taste good.
if i would still have it is far from the worst.
"if i will have"
join the tapper of the rings at the cinema park tomorrow
as an anglo this always messes up my mind.
if i had known, i would not have come
"you should come here"
you eat well.
we died ben the ciborium
the ifs don't like them.
there's something written inside too:
"i fell"
stop whose.
grammernazi
or make the difference between: it is, is, these, its ...
[deleted]
there is really someone who took the time to do this ...
why ?
if i would have.
moé too
it borders on the little hair that remains on my head.
and jousait.
you were faster than me lol
i answered.
very cultural!
r34
sit down!
i don't know if many people will understand her in quebec, but macron's wife is almost 25 years older than him
excellent grandma, literally.
is it for the granny awards?
someone is dedicated to the english version and the shitpost on r / royalfamily r / monarchism and especially r / unitedkingdom?
ah bin cawwwlisse *upvote*
the best french meme i have seen for a bottle
that's a great meme lol
giggity giggity. alright...
lololol,  too soon, too soon! 😂😂😂
[deleted]
it comes out quite a bit on french sub, i was surprised to find it here. so our cousins on the other side of the atlantic follow the stories of our presipacy to this point?
well, r / france r / rance and now r / quebec
it's not her teacher, it doesn't work
enough to put the republic in motion
however, who is going to be below?
he married his mistress, his school teacher.
[deleted]
can we stop with france? we are on air \\ quebec, not r \\ france
yeah, i wondered if i should really post this here ... then i thought yes because we are subjects of her majesty.
he was 16 and she was his teacher.
> brigitte trogneux married, on june 22, 1974, andré-louis auzière. (1951-2019 young man from her social background and future banker, with whom she has three children,
>
> in may 1993, in the theater workshop that she runs at the lycée de la providence, she notices emmanuel macron, then 15 years old and a second year student in the same class as his daughter laurence.
>
> the following year, the couple begins a relationship. the age difference (of more than twenty-four years) between the two lovers causes a scandal in the trogneux family, ** especially as their relationship could fall under article 227-27 of the penal code, which enshrines the offense of sexual assault on a minor, which stipulates that a teacher who has sexual relations with a minor student over 15 years of age faces up to three years in prison ** their relationship continues discreetly in paris, where emmanuel macron enters terminal class.
>
> brigitte trogneux divorces andré-louis auzière on january 26, 2006. on october 20, 2007, she married emmanuel macron in le touquet-paris-plage.
[source](
ouuff
seeing how popular the post is, i think people have figured it out!
and there began to play hideously in a funny way with her when she was her high school teacher.
tse, the literary masterpiece bille en tete by alexandre jardin? it wasn't bad him.
(a chance that it is surely more fertile, otherwise they may end up with a 3rd hundred years war
haha! this is exactly what i was going to comment on.
payback for the english variant?
props to op
lol
at 99, i would say * too late *
but rich enough. just what turns him on.
not the details, but they know who macron is and that he has an old wife.
u wot?
if only for me, i laughed in esti.
we don't care if there is anyone who doesn't handle it, there are unlimited grannies here. we are not disney or tva who absolutely have to produce diluted content for as many audiences as possible.
this one i find funny and i upvote. jokes that i don't handle, i move on.
so keep posting what you want, what you find excellent.
signed - a co-subject of his majesty
ps by the way, so that means harry is now forced to return to england for his grandfather's funeral. get out your popcorns.
those who understand find it funny, that's the important thing
can you make jokes about the queen? she is not a subject!
and they said that they "waited until he was 18 before going out together so 2 years" yes he did he did you believe
here she would go to prison, there she goes to elysee ...
the confusing syntax makes the story difficult to follow, but furthermore, macron started his relationship as a minor ... and it lasted secretly for 14 years.
like in celine dion's song ... oops, bad joke!
their relationship has been going on for 28 years, it's not like it's a * fling * ¯ \\ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
of course, waiting 13 years for a divorce is a bit strange, but i'm the type to live and let live ...
i love this novel
> we are not disney or tva which must absolutely produce diluted content for the widest possible audience.
that's why we love reddit! the limit does not come from a company that tenderly caresses its image like a narcissist, but from the public with up / down votes. that and the legal limit (like posting a live murder is no-no * cough * magnota * cough *.)
i never said the opposite and especially not that it should not have been posted, no need to get on your high royal horses.
we are reassured, for you this is not the case.
[deleted]
the age of consent is 16 here too
[nope, nothing dutout] (
does it make any difference, a teacher and his student?
not in a position of authority, since the harper reform
> a young person aged 16 or 17 cannot consent to sexual activity if:
> - her sexual partner is in a position of trust or authority vis-à-vis her (for example, her teacher or her trainer);
hahaha lol, how i could have missed that!
less than 1 hour, already multiple bans. rigorous debates and intense discussions are allowed, but insults are not.
crazy the same! i can't believe that fromagerie victoria is the best poutine in quebec.
[deleted]
i have already said everything i had to say on the subject but i will just tell op that you have probably just left the post which will be the most commented on in the history of r / quebec!
> the start of the school year, cegeps and universities would be face-to-face.
that's all i wanted to hear.
the popcorn is in the microwave.
i am ready
if we nationalize salt, we start a mine here and we bail out the health system!
inb4 this post becomes a dumpster fire esti
me not anti-vax, i have already had my two doses, and i think it's super important that everyone gets vaccinated.
on the other hand i think that it is extremely liberticidal and really not a cool precedent to create a system where we will have to prove our identity to go almost anywhere.
already, without getting into the conspiracy, first it is a private company that will manage all that, and that does not inspire me at all confidence. do you really think they're going to sit on all the data they're going to harvest like that, and they're not going to do anything with it? it's just one more assault on our private lives, and it pisses me off.
and then from a more personal point of view, as a transgender person who hasn't legally changed their name yet (because it costs an arm and i'm broken), it pisses me off that i now have to put myself out there. restaurant staff, or cinema staff. it already makes my life quite complicated and unpleasant when i have to deal with the saaq, the ramq or the bank, in addition, i have to do the same silliness wherever i go? ouache.
ultimately i don't see how we can avoid it. people won't all want to re-define themselves for the little gang of nonos who refuse to get the shot, or think it's not important, or whatever.
but it's better to be temporary screeching. and that means that we need a big opposition to the government, people who check them, who follow them, and who do not let this system last three seconds longer than necessary.
it stresses me out.
it's more of a refresh of the june announcement. it was written in the sky that the government does not want to close everything, our health system has not been better for 2 months so the only way to get there unfortunately is to reduce the social contacts of unvaccinated people.
i already see a lot of people saying that even vaccinated you transmit the virus, so the passport is useless. yes, but if you just pass it on to people who have been vaccinated, the chances of complications are much lower.
the point of all of this is not to overload hospitals, not to eliminate the virus and i believe it will work.
we hope that this announcement will convince those who are still hesitant!
wasn't that supposed to be applied only in certain areas where there are outbreaks?
and there it is "as soon as the cases go up"
holy fucking shit is an it consulting firm that is going to make 2.4 billion fast!
okay, i got my two shots, cool. so in theory i'm reading this and i should be happy, right?
wrong
no i am not anti vaxx conspiracy, but i am being realistic and here is why.
correct me if i'm wrong, but i find legault's management of the pandemic has been all wrong, no transparency, false promises and regulations that make no sense (eg. we close businesses on a sunday).
so, even if on paper it seems like a good idea, we agree that the 28-day challenge that lasts 200+ days, the promised just 2-week curfew that lasts two months. immunization passport for just 1 year promised and just the covid promised.
we're going in a direction of no return with this. i am extremely worried that the vaccine passport is in the hands of legault who favored the boomers in big houses and these friends. in a conference he even said himself that he changed the rules on wearing a mask when golfing with a mask since these friends call him and say it doesn't make sense.
so you really want to put something like a passport in the hands of this man as my liver, to prove over and over again that these promises never turn out to be a reality, he's just irresponsible in my opinion.
i already see the titles on this sub in 1 year like whatever it doesn't look like to keep the vaccine passport today and that we should remove it or like whatever their friend who just can't take the vaccine for medical reason cannot go to a restaurant and celebrate and there is always discrimination everywhere.
saved this comment preciously in 1 years it may be quite relevant, i hope i'm wrong and that legault will be responsible with this kind of stuff. i have a huge doubt.
80% of people vaccinated, i thought that was enough, i guess the "goal post" will not stop changing and if i were you i would be extremely worried that legault would move forward with the vaccination passport.
[deleted]
jme recalls when a guy told me that the mask obligation would never pass and that it was going to go to the supreme court because it is unconstitutional lol, i hope to cross him again.
let's fucking goo.
i call on your conspiracies with tin foil on your head about why you don't want to take the vaccine that makes you think you're superior to doctors and experts on the subject. therefore stay at home callliissssssss
highest vaccination rate in the world is not high enough lol.
yes, finally! it's the anti-vaxx's turn to be confined! i can not wait to see duhaime fail and say that it harms our libaaartés.
edit: to the anti-vaxx that just downvoted me: 😂😂😂😂
good, hoping that will motivate those who were still hesitant to get vaccinated.
since the vast majority of quebecers are vaccinated, it will not change much in our lives.
i may be ootl, but what's the difference between passport and vaccine proof? i have already received a paper following my 2nd dose to prove my vaccination, shouldn't it?
you are so brainwashed by media propaganda that you are too stupid to realize that being against such excessive measures does not mean that you are a conspiratorial or anti-vaccine. i have received all my vaccines all my life including my double dose covid.
no i do not believe that legault is trying to establish a new world order with bill gates and 5g chips.
it is so much of a straw-man argument to try to discredit any argument against government measures by saying “hurr durrrr lol conspi retard hurr durrr”
it is possible to discuss the current situation without getting to that point. however it seems very complicated to have a logical discussion when you put yourself so high on your virtue signaling estal footing.
anyway. could be able here. no way to argue against the government's measures without being insulted and being called a conspirator.
my gym will be quiet!
nice work by the quebec government 👏
no sympathy for the anti vaxxers
hi
i have been fully vaccinated for a month and then it saddens me to see the number of people who are happy with this announcement ...
what turns me off the most here is the joy of all those who rejoice at the idea of pissing off those who have refused the vaccine. no one is arguing that this is a useful measure to deal with covid, it is just a surly measure to let off steam on the government's hate propaganda scapegoats.
we got there. a divided society, which hates itself, all because we have a government and "experts" who refuse to admit the failure of their approaches and instead choose to divert the blame to others. and so many people swallow bullshit without any critical thinking.
addition:
for those who would deny that the reaction on this thread is one of joy to pissing people off, a few quotes:
[jelsaispas you have a heart attack?] ( )&context
[yes, finally! it's the anti-vaxx's turn to be confined! i can't wait to see duhaime fail and say that it harms our libaaartés.] ( = 3)
[ah, how beautiful to see all these conspiratorialists in beautiful cursed!] ( web2x & context = 3)
[if we nationalize salt, we start a mine here and we bail out the health system!] ( = reddit & utm_medium = web2x & context = 3)
[ignorant people should be confronted with the consequences of their choices more often.] ( 3)
[i'm just here to drink some angry comments.] ( )
[no sympathy for the anti vaxxers.] ( )&context=
legault says that vaccinated people are entitled to a return to an "almost normal" life ... what is the goal then, how are we doing? this kind of talk and rhetoric makes it look like the vaccine isn't working. even if 100% of the population would be vaccinated, the virus would still circulate.
logic and common sense would like us to learn to live with the virus and not restrictive measures ...
where were you when quebec dies ?
> i was sit at home after long day, eat poutine, my friend jeslsaispas call and say bad news :
> quebec is kill
> no
i'm looking for the dumpster fire and i just find comments that say there is a dumpster fire.
i missed the grand incendie de / r / quebec 2021 :(
it won't end with 2 doses of this stuff. and since we have no deadline on this passport, we will surely take new vaccines for eternity.
son with the most comments on / r / quebec:
1. [election night thread] ( (2394 comments) *
2. this thread
3. [tva's face-à-face québec 2018 thread] ( (1065 comments) *
4. [thread debate: phillippe couillard vs françois legault] ( (982 comments) *
5. [towards a (other) total containment] ( (914 comments)
*live threads
edit: now in 3rd place
edit²: 2e place!
how long is the passport for? for life? 2 weeks? 28 days? 2 years?
"grandpa, where were you during the big fire on r / quebec in 2021?"
"i was there and saw it all!"
i guess those who weren't vaccinated just out of laziness will go get the shot, but i wonder what those who notoriously refuse to get the shot will do. it's still boring to think that you can get out.
phew. cgi is going to be the palette!
i can't wait to read the lacrosse-en-rond emails from the leaders saluting our good will, our courage and that thanks to their efforts, we will be able to have a bigger hold on the quebec market.
it creates employment.
edit to clarify that i am not against the principle of a vaccination passport, just that it will be done a little all wrong for a few months.
this thread is a dompe on fire in oka
it's pretty boring, but i don't care. the restrictions will not affect me, vaccinated 2 doses.
sorry not sorry.
but don't we already have the entire pi qr code? do i understand that the vaccination proof is different from the vaccination passport, but it wouldn't have been easier to do everything at the beginning? we already knew it was coming
i'm looking for u / jelsaispas in the comments but i can't find it: '(
[deleted]
[deleted]
good news! containment for the unvaccinated only!
the problem is that vaccine passports could become the backbone of an oppressive digital identification system and could easily lead to health apartheid incompatible with a free and democratic country.
in addition, digital identity cards risk introducing sensitive files covering medical, professional, travel and biometric data on each of us now within the reach of authorities and officials.
no thanks.
i'm just here to drink angry comments.
present on this wire before the fire.
there are so many conspiracy weirdos on this sub lmao
lol, no.
i am vaccinated but i do not have to share my medical information with anyone.
it is guaranteed that there will always be a minority who will not be vaccinated, it does not matter.
dictatorship
lego
i'm ready! i won't hide from you that i'm really satisfied to read this in the morning
oh boy, here we go.
she annoys me so much this one.
as if i want to do like my great-grandfather and go to the woods in the winter, and then clear the land in the summer.
kind of misplaced nostalgia for a super tough life, no thanks.
after seeing that i had to sing it in its entirety. it was a piece of cake.
today i learned that my great great grandfather was a baker in what is griffintown today.
like his father.
and his father was a farmer in ile bizard, montreal? in the days of lower canada.
like his father
and like his father.
and like his father to him.
and like his father to him.
and his father was a militia captain of the saint anne coast, fuck yes!
and his father was a soldier and then a farmer. he was born in france.
i am a 13th generation immigrant from both sides of my family
unpopular opinion: i don't like this toune, it idealizes the past and vaguely shame slut.
this is true for the majority, but i am one of those who received nothing from our ancestors. nada, my family has been from quebec for generations and poor as a penny, i have paid for everything with my labor.
the toune has a good beat and it's an earworm, but instead of "degeneration" it should be called "repeat trepanation" because all the characters are so thick.
between the incapable, the irresponsible and those who do not have the memo on contraception, it draws a very distorted portrait of modern life.
* your great-great-grandfather, he died of an infection *
* your great-grandfather was in a coal mine *
* and worse your grandfather succumbed to mumps *
* and your father is fine with him, there is access to all care. *
the appendices did [a perfect parody] ( which demonstrates why this song is ...
catchy song that makes you go 'wait wtf did you just get me to sing? nah son that's regressive af'
that song is an absolute banger
it took me over 10 years to realize it but ... he says "when you dream at night" twice. if he had just pushed it so that it was 3 or 4 it could have been some kind of pattern but this is just a "y repeated"
honestly, i always saw this song as what the more generations advance the wimps we are :(.
i like the parody of the appendices better.
toune de marde
this music is absolutely amazing! too bad she is not better known than that in france
regarding his message (which i strongly support), i think it is more focused on the fact that the older generations despite the hardness of life thought in the long term and the only goal was that one day a descendant could come out of this misery thanks to this work accumulated over so many generations. he blames the boomer generation / our parents for not wanting this vision and for falling into consumerism (time / money is property) to leave nothing to others. it is a more traditional view of life. in addition, i know that many quebecers are much more on the left socially speaking than the french (it's the north american side) but i greatly appreciate the conservative / traditional discourse present in this song!
yeah well i got it too. worse, it is rare that this same template is used well so upvote!
my great great grandfather, my great grandfather and my grandfather were a farmer. they never had a shit.
u / hypstersaurus as i understand you (- \ _-)
well, i'm going to have it in my head all day long ...
best use of this meme. well done.
your great-great-grandmother had 14 children, your great-great-grandfather had almost as many! ...
wait what?
doge!
absolute banger
eeeettt piiiis toeeeer mon tiiiit gaaaaaars
/ u / hypstersaurus chants this to get it out of your head:
the panneton clan, to move ....
so true!
everyone talks about the americans, the germans and the english but haha quebec go brrrr
a beautiful song for conservative children.
the band members said they regretted the song.
you really missed your shot for the title, it should have been dogeneration
hi i am just a english traveller don't mind me
i don’t speak french lol
i my french. the dog and shit
what don't you like dying of pneumonia at 26?
i don't know if the song "endorses" the old days that much. there are still things like:
"your great-great-grandfather lived through great misery
your great-grandfather, he picked up the pennies
and worse your grandfather, miracle, became a millionaire there
your father inherited it, he put it all in his rrsps "
i hear more like, i don't know ... a desire for simplicity and maybe to have less guilt. today, having the guilt of having access to so many things, of having the choice to do whatever you want, but still feel pocketed because for a while you live in a 3 and a half evil heated, or you're just miserable despite everything you've got, or you meet lots of partners but you don't build anything with them. etc.
like i say, i don't know, i'm not denying your point of view, but i think we can see something else too.
so agree. ben of misery with the moralizing tone. nostalgia for a time that even those who lived it wouldn't go back for a second.
rather misogynist with the second verse too
without wanting to glorify the old days when we worked like sick people for a couple of hundred blacks. there is something very rewarding about working with your hands, especially outdoors, and i'm sure a lot of people, who work 9-5 in front of a computer in an office with neon lights, would be much happier to work. as a lumberjack or on a farm with a more modest lifestyle.
an anti-choice issue too. as if all women who have an abortion regret and only serve to satisfy their biological destiny. believe me our great-great-grandmothers would have taken the pill.
you are absolutely right. will i still sing that song every time i hear it? absoutely.
this is the terroir.
worse the toune does not praise the work of the land for info.
i find it bordering on condescension this song.
> she annoys me so much this one.
what annoys me is to see how everyone has the same dream in life: that of buying a house. as if there was no other way to access happiness and flourish than by buying a house.
i watch my friends who have bought and who are trapped in wasting their free time doing maintenance, watering their lawn sacrament for the 7th time of the evening, repairing and cleaning their swimming pool ... are not even in their thirties worse are stimulated by the growth of their grass and the arrival of bills and their tax bill.
all this to wake up at 40 and realize that they have not experienced anything and that they are now "too old" to take risks.
i will never understand her. good for those who find comfort in it, but buying a property is really not for everyone and it is annoying to always read the same posts that concern the inaccessibility of the real estate market.
and these irresponsible young women today who have abortions instead of having sixteen children.
/s
the sores to whom the song is "dreaming". not that they are going to take action but it must sound romantic from their ignorant point of view.
i am an alcolo,
my grandfather too,
my great grandfather too.
here we have tradition at heart!
the first of my paternal family, who arrived a few years after the founding of quebec, was a parish priest. it still makes me laugh. on my mother's side, farmers all the way.
my family had a dairy farm from 1700 until 1950. and my great-grandfather had cancer, went into debt to his teeth to pay for his treatment and everything was sold.
now the family is spread around the corner, but the farm has become a street with houses.
modern times have certainly changed lives.
my ancestors, they've been in quebec for 32,000 years!
mine had a linen store in dolbeau
worse perhaps a fleet of passenger buses in bellechasse before.
worse my grandfather after him worked at the dolbeau mill on shifts all his life.
i imagine that the (possible) fortune of my great-grandfather did not make it very far after his death.
do you have a particular source to know all this?
do you want to come and settle in quebec?
it's me, i'm in this picture!
i am so happy that people come here to learn quebec french. welcome everyone: d
haha me to! i am a high school student and i want to improve my conversational french. (god i hope that was the right verb tense).
french quebecois is the best kind of french
prove me wrong
i laughed at it because it's so true. duolingo doesn't know coronations, so i'm often confused. i come back here every day anyway.
my only reason too, and so that i can move to quebec after the end of the united states is coming.
criss that i like it reading crooked french from people who triumph in quebec! it warms my heart to see so much love for our part of the country!
granny, i understood this reference;)
i wonder how many of us are english. i get such pride when i get the joke.
yyyyyyup it's me too
"this is why you are here"
i feel seen
lol
warm white grannies *
haha, i love you.
my boyfriend does that too, he asks me what memes sometimes mean. i find it cute
me too. my first reason for learning foreign languages is to understand the same ones.
(sorry guys i've been studying for only 6 months)
good continuation! i can see you're off to a good start
we're all here for the grannies!
white hot mémés
this is more true than i'm willing to admit. merci, mes amis québécers!
i just want to say that i find it really charming to see editors practicing their french by chatting about r / quebec. seriously, it warms my heart! welcome to r / quebec !!!
i got used to france, and when you learn a lot in this sub it's not especially french
but i learned french on duolingo just to talk to these people and to know the french rules
this! when i came back from montreal it was the same source of the french language for months 😭
this is the way.
awww i love the comments here so much!
it's me!
me too lol
huh it's about me
/ r / me_dlvv
dude, have been able to white-hot maymay on r / quebec for a long time. the pre-teens who write flawlessly in french, have them all downvoted towards the abyss: wink:
well, that's what we're doing.
it works well from ostia to me
yes it's me in this meme
not really. i live in london with my girlfriend who comes from montreal. i'm trying to learn the language because of her and her family. and i love to visit so much.
we are dozens!
i do both! lol
i wish duolingo had slang lessons and quebecois coronations 😅
same?
drake?
yes! on the other hand, the word "high school student" is not used in quebec. we rather say "student" (or student if you are a girl).
for reference, a high school student is not used in quebec but in france it is used between 16 and 18-19 years old on average (for the second, first and final classes - the three years before the baccalaureate)
as the french system is really crazy and not very logical, using "student" actually works well everywhere except maybe if you are really very young (if an 8 year old child calls himself a student i don't know if it works in quebec but we will find it funny in france)
damn it's the truth
yes ! i'm starting to learn it by listening to a new brunswick band. or is it that these two french people are really different?
certain because the word putin originates from here. it is part of the vocabulary of the language.
everywhere in quebec outside of montreal it's chill, but you have to speak ideally french but people do not judge a person who makes an effort to speak it. it is especially in montreal that english is spoken.
yeah!! i want to poll! then that we will know how many of us are english and really here to learn french 😝😆
"spoursa qshtissit"
what does the "white-hot" slang mean?
no stress, in fact very strong for just 6 months, you legit made no mistake: p
command?
it's the best meme here so far.
send this to infoman
it's epic😂
it's not your tv that's broken, it's all your dreams !!
#cavasbinaller
if you are serious about selling it, consider sharing the ad in a comment on [noémie dufresne] 's facebook page (
i regret not committing suicide at the very beginning and even before
me it's my reddit which always has the same news. can you get me a refund?
its good ! i approve haha
she is disgusting !!! i laughed my life. best here to date, i second!
400 channels and i have nothing but confinements ...
[deleted]
i have already been there aupaaaravaaant
higher up the street
already seen, i've just been to this place before
higher on the street, and i know my time has come
calling you, and the search is a mystery
with both feet on the ground, it's so hard to be when i try to be me, woah
j saw his on fb yesterday morning
200 is too expensive.
85 cents, no more.
bro 👍😅😂🤣
til is who noémie dufresne.
ayoye. 😂
hahaha you want to find tires, it's not the choice that is missing on his xd page
it's never worth it. 833-456-4566
i'm in the same boat as you. hang on, even if it's tempting in a screeching way.
coming to the states there are no more restrictions since february and we're good
to commit suicide is for the fags, you will stay and suffer worse with us other my little criss you have no right to save yourself
karma farming
my first hd tv, i bought this in 2008, sony 40 inch screened screen jte says. you could hit it without it breaking. 999.99 in boxing day discount. i kept it until 2019 when i finally decided to upgrade. a real real tank ste bébelle la.
the problem with 4k hd at 300 bucks is often that your image, even if it's 4k hd, will look like an ass. my mom just bought a 62 inch 4k hd pi calvert that's milky.
too bad i don't have a price to offer you. even if the user was joking, you can never be too careful.
no thank you, i don't want to be even more crisp
it's been well before me and i know i'm going to crack the wall to realize that everything is the same for me as soon as the covid is over. or well everything is even worse if jose try to change xa
i will not go to a fascist country
eille le cave, do you think that calling suicidal people a fag is going to help him?
nah just bored yk. it's a great meme anyways
if i called this number i guarantee you that it would not be a maybe anymore
same here. worse, finding help is extremely long and difficult. i still hope for us that the winds will turn - i send you courage and love. if you need to chat with someone who understands, don't hesitate.
oh boy the irony of your comment ...
he's so cave that it just made me feel better not to be him tbh
tumors like you are the main reason i feel the same
delivered to the point where you plan to be big
we can even get depressed quiet 🥴 ...
more broadly, i am in favor of banning advertising in public spaces. i really believe it is the cancer of society. it creeps in everywhere and always wants more.
just think of television: the goal when you paid for a tv package, was to have access to channels that did not broadcast advertisements. now it is impossible.
the same goes for magazines. you literally pay for ads on every page. even the agenda at my university is so packed with promo and ads that i don't even take it. on the internet, if you don't have a blocker, ads will use your bandwidth to entice you to buy their product.
it's not a black mirror scenario, it's even made that the shell near my home is running ads with the volume in the piton while i refuel.
in 2021, it's not badly archaic as a technique
it can be reused anyway well. it is a fairly weather resistant material.
in the corner of our little sugar shack, there are lots of small structures with election signs.
besides, i'll have to try to pick up a few.
several candidates reuse their signs during multiple elections, including tommy bureau in quebec.
why not display on toilet paper? triple thickness question of combining the useful with the pleasant.
/ boomer off humor
last election wasn't a green campaigning without signs? i hope it will become the norm, at least for this party, it would already be that less
100% agree. no effect, people have access to digital information.
i totally agree.
the downside is that the population is too stupid to be informed, and it is therefore one of the variables that significantly increases the level of voter turnout.
except ... do we really want the world who just rely on signs to vote?
meh ...
esti de franglais, i wondered why you found yourself "douchebag" to think that ...
it makes good crazy cheap carpets.
although i wouldn't give a picture of trudeau to my kids honestly it would be cr33py.
fuck yes. it's so shit!
there are plenty of companies / organizations that collect them for various uses. they do not go straight to the trash after an election.
should lcd screens on the panels is more durable!
there is a company that transforms the sign into a park bench. [edit: apparently it's cascade] (
in addition it is the same asti business every year. no originality in the signs, nothing new, always just the face, the logo the color, no innovation in the marketing of political parties for 50 years like it sucks!
the candidates are not even official in the counties and they put up their signs like that ...
makes a good reflector for the photo, if you use the shiny side (side without policy)
i agree you are!
not to mention the parties that leave them stuck to the posts when the elections have been over for 10 months.
are not thrown away ... are collected by organizations
no, it's not for single use.
you can buy them after the election. we make our walls of our hunting watchtowers with these signs. it is light and resistant therefore, it still works well.
i can't imagine these posters couldn't be made of biodegradable cardboard
fyi i work in advertising, and there has been a lot of effort to recover and recycle the material for a few years. and in fact, it is less polluting than the posters of real estate agents that they are thrown. that said, it still belongs to a pre-digital era.
not so single use considering that there are a lot of people who use them to seal around air conditioning. :)
y should slacken the photoshop aussie. they look like instagram babes. we all know that you have lots of crevices in your face
i remember in high school we had a politician in our high school cafeteria at lunchtime.
we asked if their signs are recyclable. he replied that they are made from recycled material. we screeched because he dodged the question.
or it should at least have a limit on the number of signs from the same party per square kilometer.
i want to be informed that there is an election and who is running there, but i will not forget it 4m after seeing it.
who has ever looked at a sign and said: this is what convinces me to vote for this person.
100%
they serve as lûges in winter.
wasn't there a party that had recycled their signs at some point?
after the last federal i had a partition to mount in the back of a wardrobe. i didn't rush to make gypsum, i picked up 4 signs that had not been picked up (you're welcome, the defeated candidates) and i tackled them there.
similar question: do signs have an impact on voting intentions?
did someone indecisive saw a party sign and thought "yes! the aesthetics and that slogan really speak to me, have my vote"?
i read thought of shower as thought of a fat colonist. i told myself it's true it's douchy af would have to be banned.
word.
did you know that paper bags emit more co2 than plastic bags?
i was telling myself exactly the same thing '.. but if it is not forbidden nobody will stop ... you do not want to be the only one without having a sign that would be suicide
so true
i vote for the party with the most signs because i'm fucking retarded.
yes.
bin kin, c laite itou who wants his in his serious course ...
it's your french that should be banned.
"usage" is quickly said in criss .....
in my case these signs i recover them for crafts. i made a duck cache with the big face of gilles duceppe once :)
my primary switch to tinkering with signs proves the opposite.
why not make some crazy-carpets for the winter? add two holes for the mittens, and i'm definitely going to want to sit my fat ass on a politician's face: d
let's go. where's the petition?
i sign it and share it with pleasure !!!!
from the top of my bias as a guy who put up the said signs during a dozen elections:
- there are less than before;
- established party associations generally have channels for distributing signs to schools, organizations, etc.
- do not underestimate the number of voters who consume little or no news. these people go outside for example (well, when it does not coexist too much).
- placards are often the only way to promote a local candidate. in principle, it is for this world that we vote. it complements the candidate's field presence; a familiar face is seen as less threatening when the dudette approaches you randomly at the mall.
- doing digital advertising for a local candidacy is hell. when counties can range from one piece of a neighborhood to one-third the size of a province, targeting ads on social media is kafkaesque. and we're not even talking about adblocks and vpns.
- even without going as far as the marketing manipulations described in another commentary, putting up a public space creates an “electoral mindset”. our brains recognize the context and, will, will not, it improves our perception of political information. in a democracy, it's not bad.
it's not a perfect or ideal medium, but it always comes down to a cost-benefit calculation. campaigns without posters, it is possible, but it is often based on a very great personal notoriety, which is not always within the reach of the thousand people who will try to be elected this fall.
it is not for single use, they make excellent crazy carpet
by the way, want an old bungalow that has never been renovated and is really poorly maintained? only 8 times more expensive than what they paid in 1988!
i must say that the title of the press royally infuriates me:
"home visits soon allowed between the 65 and over vaccinated"
... we all did this to protect the old criss from dying, and the second they are going to be vaccinated .. they are going to have rules to favor them?
well the vaccines should be first come first served in this case .. being 42 years old, having worked in the house for a year .. i am no longer able to see special treatments for all special cases leaving the middle slice to die and rot for a year ...
so go shit the covid, worse the damn populist government!
it's called living in a gerontocracy.
while you bicker against generations thinking you are smart, i am going about a business of fake covid passports to make money.
did you talk about it even today?
the vaccination passport is an idea of marde. that countries ask newcomers to be vaccinated, i have no problem. but asking someone to be vaccinated to go to a restaurant and a concert, in order to create some kind of incentive to force vaccination if people want to participate in society? anything.
i'm all for vaccination, but that passport, yuck. ask bioethicists what they think about it, you will see.
that would be the end of the line!
lockdown is imposed on young adults for whom the risks of dying from covid are similar to the risks of influenza for the benefit of the elderly whose risks of dying from covid are much higher (to the point where some experts suggest ending the lockdown general in favor of protection oriented towards the elderly), and when deconfining, we would deconfin the old vaccinated first while we would keep the young locked in the same?
i love your grandma but i must say, the past participle in the title hurt my brain
it won't happen, you don't have to worry about it. the only reason we talk about it is because it gives media ratings.
* voice of françois legault * hello everyone. today i am in psychological distress.
that's what i've been saying for a few days to those who are like “yeah, it'll be a great summer! it's going to be fine! »sure a beautiful summer if you are 82 years old ...
if legault continues with his same logic of punishing those less at risk, the only people who will have a good summer will be the elderly.
and i'm not agiste there ... but it pisses me off that it's been literally a year that we've been in there and that there is no openness to giving young people a little more freedom. “yeah, but young people are not vaccinated! i have no problem with the old people being able to do activities, because they are vaccinated! "
yes, is it our fault that we are not vaccinated?
personally, i would have preferred that they favor essential workers first. batard, it is us who risk not only having it but passing it on to our clients and families.
\*adopt
\ * passport / passports
young people must seriously go and vote regularly, not to say religiously.
the caq governs for its voters, it's simple.
as a person "at risk" that pisses me off even more, since we are going to vaccinate the boomers for a long time before opening the door to people with pulmonary disorders.
it's becoming more and more obvious that those who run the circus don't give a damn about vulnerable people ... it's about saving their own skin.
last rant: are you me or those who respect distancing and wearing a mask the least are 65 years old and over?
for those who still think it's just a rumor ... yes dubé has really announced the implementation of the covid passport in the short term.
the government had better take care of vaccinating everyone instead of wasting its time with nonsense. in a few months we should be vaccinated but as far as i know this vaccine will have to be taken again regularly like that of the flu whereas this passport would be worth.
ya i’ll fucking riot if they do that
isolate the boomer cries, and let the world live!
ah! cuddle me. if the cases continue to stay low, you can be sure that this summer i see my gang. fuck it all, i've followed the rules enough, at one point we have the right to live.
do not forget the gen z come on, we are no longer teenagers, some have even started to have children 😂😂
i don't see a problem with the "passport", it's the equivalent of a certification card that you keep in your wallet.
however, it will be funny as a situation if we have the boomer and older generations who can go to restaurants and the employees who are gen x and millennials have to control them.
fuck passport covid. it's just a way to enter the health codes. as in china. serious. are you green? ok. are you red? stay at home. just mass control like cattle. completely not necessary.
naeh even if they want to do it, they won't be able to.
we remember the success of the tracing application québécoise not using the one made by canada.
finally we are not able to make one in time using that of canada.
the science is not clear from us too
we will not do an immune passport. we are already at 450k / vaccinated per month. the minute we reach 60% of the population we can lift all health restrictions because that means that a month later we will reach 80% and the pandemic is over.
let's not forget the healthcare workers!
and the gen z them others are like the skeleton at the bottom of the pool
the thing that escapes me with this story is that today i protect myself to avoid giving it to an old man when i go shopping. i already have very low risk of hospitalization.
why isn't the old man who got vaccinated doing exactly the way i have been doing for a year? being vaccinated, he can transmit it but has only a low chance of being hospitalized. if we let the old vaccinated out without letting the unvaccinated young people out, i no longer understand.
[deleted]
forget the class war.
the generation war is my new best friend.
how to thank the sacrifice of a more beautiful year of life ...
the advice of how to take it back
especially that a vaccinated boomer remains in every point more at risk than a young not vaccinated
go read “a generation of sociopaths: how baby boomers betrayed america” by bruce cannon gibney.
fair warning, you may lose hope in humanity.
ris as essential worker vaccinated since december
you have people vaccinated?
man the pi anti vax conspirators are going out in fury din pi streets burning tanks
my husband and i, who have been working like crazy in the hospital for a year who are also vaccinated
🤗
i live in a house from 1942, i saw some :)
is
i bought 5 years ago in sorel-tracy because it is the only place close to my work that i could afford to become an owner. there are still affordable homes but a lot of renovations to be done in my area.
*adopt
*passport
*have
so agree!
i was vaccinated however, i am a gen z but i am native american. oh well, don't mind if i do
i imagine french teachers seeing this kind of grandma and farting into depression saying they have completely failed their term.
they were so good these boarding boomers at 9 years old, slapping and having school 6 days a week and going out twice a year. a bungalow at 14% interest at 82 relative dollars was as expensive in dollars as it is today. well yes the cost of living is exploding ... we are double the population on earth compared to 1960.
nice le cross and around anti boomer
pleases my little xavier.
whoever developed the intermet was a boomer. #voyeules
ok millenial.
i'm not a boomer, but i disagree with a lot of the comments. what annoys me is that i cannot imagine you in a situation in the future, when you are over 60 and a pandemic situation is coming up with similar effects. if you are going to act on how you feel how others should behave. i can't see you pitching yourself under the bus to give the youngest a better life. basically i see in the comments the same type of attitude that you attribute to boomers and more. yes, okay that the world they are leaving us is not strong but even if the conditions were good i have the feeling that you will cry the same. you are no better.
i have been vaccinated myself. :)
well done! we appreciate it when americans love us! do you know that you have not placed quebec and montreal in the right place?
good work.
on the other hand, to speak of the french language, there is no capital letter (unlike english).
j'aime le français = i like the french person
j'aime le français = i like the french language
well done! if you like quebecois, you can find a lot of series made in quebec on the tou.tv site
where is quebec? in asia ?
all you have to do is change your flair to ** freedom ** and your conversion will be complete!
at first i thought i was a troll with the english board on the side. pi after i read.
thank you for this love of the french language and of quebec.
your french is impeccable.
signed by a canadian quebecer originally from france but who fell in love with quebec
great!
just wanna say tho, that northen villages like kuujjuaq and ivujivik aren't really french/francophone.
when french or english is spoken there, it's as a second language or it's by employee that aren't native and don't live there.
they have their own language that should also be celebrated. but people from these places would probably look at this image and have a lot of question mark on their face, as they really don't recognize themself as ''french'' or ''francophone''
the real northest french speaking place in québec (and in the world) is radisson. 
anyways, that's my two cent. great bulletin board.
in fact, i am not sure what quebec is, apart from my country, and winter.
it always makes me smile to see the kind of dog's head that is the map of quebec :)
thank you very much, it's heartwarming. and it is very successful!
if one day you want to come here, we welcome you with open arms!
you are amazing, i am sure your bulletin board is 100 times better than the latin club! ;) do you need anything? tourism information?
i think i understand;) i'm sending you a hug from montreal, great job!
argarde moe don ca. stu not bo our talk here.
thank you :)
i love! thank you for sharing it with us 😊
wow!
well done the little americans! we love you!
the name lycée is used mainly in france. in quebec, it looks like a high school (age 12-17 years 7-11) or even a cegep (college) (17 years and + 12-13th grade) nice work anyway!
well done, it's touching. 👌🙏
thanks to you, they will have the opportunity to get to know quebec.
i would add a sharp accent in montreal, but other than that it's perfect! bravo for the effort and thank you for this great showcase for quebec!
you are welcome to come and visit quebec!
bravo for your effort, my friend!
there is an accent on the "e" in montréal, you got them right for gaspé and québec :)
well done! and thank you for the beautiful homage. very small detail, a cedilla that emerges on the other side ie french (look under the "c" ... "ç").
ah, seeing gaspé on these cards always makes me happy!
i love your painting. well done! another small clarification. looks like your cedilla under the c in "french" is upside down!
wow great job !!!! thank you for making quebec shine !!
gorgeous!! nice work my neighbor!
that’s awesome!!
wowowow! with nunavik on top of that! thank you, it's super beautiful! : d
no saguenay lac st jean?
not me
yes i know what you’re talking about. why did you choose america? good luck lol.
câline de bine, your french is absolutely impeccable!
is there a latin club? very cool!
eille there you make us happy!
it's so beautiful! i love it!
i heart french 😅
i am more worried that young people in high school are unable to recognize north american geography.
americans know nothing about quebec in general.
the cedilla is upside down
good game! ❤️
on the other hand, you forgot gatineau 🕺
cringe but long live the free qc stills!
yes my friend did that part and i didn't have the courage to tell her she was wrong so i gave it up 😂
it solves all our bridge problems anyway. with these locations, we no longer need them!
i would say that montreal is really not that bad, but it's true that quebec is in the woods
yes, but in english, we capitalize all words (except articles) in a title. having said that, it's a bit annoying anyway. thank you !
the whining club. good job and thank you @flavorful.
let the french love him. no but oh, suddenly !!
next step :
go post this on r / unitedkingdom to see how many milliseconds it takes them to ban you;)
what is the link with / r / quebec?
also, it's the same same repost in all other big subs.
tanne to see this gang of parasites there. but really.
it reminds me of a family guy episode where peter was visiting a country in the middle east and there is a border guard who had a paper with 6 skin colors, the 3 lightest with the label "ok" and the 3 darker with "not ok"
goodness, that's the limit
esti de good granny
sorry but she is good.
i am not racist
i have a question. what does the expression "youngest child" mean? (french is not my first language and i've never heard it.)
a good example of how this narcissistic scoundrel has shamed the entire royal family. "i won't say who it is" ... so suspicion weighs on everyone, in this case on the poor old queen, whom a teenage girl in her forties is trying to spend in cash with all her family for all the better to build your own commercial flagship brand image in california. as if there was the slightest chance that a seven-eighth white baby had a face other than white! meghan really made me an ex-republican.
not that i want to stand up for anyone, but it looks like they had the same type of color scheme for harry's hair.
bahahahhahaahahahaha
🤡 🤡
it's funny but there is a lot of racism in quebec too ...
moé lo builds me a romano fafard in not long and criss my camp here
unfortunately, her skin is too dark to work at cisss laurentides.
what prevents him from being a prince is not the color, is that his father is not the right prince. that's it
there's clearly nothing real about it
not sure if this is the right question to ask, but does this improve the situation? i feel as though i'm not in on the joke. meme n'est pas dank
excellence granny!
what does this have to do with québec? i swear this sub just wants to smell their own virtuous farts more than they like staying on topic.
i'm here for the new and jokes of quebec. i don't care about the royal family of england osti.
where are you, mods?
i was genuinely shocked to see an anti-racist meme on r/quebec.
good ones guys, even if it is disingenuous becaus eits just to spite the queen andyall don't actually care, this was funny as shit.
[removed]
considering how britons throw rocks at meghan and hate her, i won't be surprised.
they really wouldn't ban you. we are mostly a country that hates itself
they can't read french ;) lol
> what is the link with / r / quebec?
in the photo there is our head of state.
this is our head of state technically hahahaha
it seems to me that there is a rule on this sub that the posts are not always obliged to speak of quebec only.
also, this is far from the first meme about the royal family on this sub, since the interview with oprah.
i saw this joke at infoman yesterday (using a color palette). now, whether the same came before or after, i don't know. but the link i see with / r / quebec is that infoman made the same joke
quebec is in canada is in the commonwealth and is linked to the royal family. there you go, link made.
the french and the russians put an end to their oppression by these parasites, permanently. i would like the people of quebec to also be rid of these english royal balls. roll on the republic of quebec.
south africa literally had (ceramic) plates with color scales to legally classify people according to their skin color ...
> i am not a racist
the queen, yes.
the youngest child of the whole family; it is the last to arrive in the world ... :)
is he red enough to be pure virgin wool english?
i think when they worried about the baby's appearance, it was so that the poor man was not red!
oh yes? how's that, exactly?
there's no more ham in canes!
it's wrong. prince george's grandchildren later in the estate had titles by order of the queen. he is 7th in the list, so much better placed. this is not a detail because it comes with state protection.
>  i swear this sub just wants to smell their own virtuous farts
in these times of a pandemic, you can never be too careful. farts are a cost-effective covid test with instant results.
wat.jpg
there's going to be anti-racist meme on 99.9% of subreddits. 
the vast, vast majority of people are against racism.
> i was genuinely shocked to see an anti-racist meme on r/quebec.
because for you canadians, it's a given that we are racist because we refuse to assimilate and want to force immigrants to speak french, right?
you heard it here first, everyone in quebec is racist 🙄
thanks for remembering me that quebec is the only racist province. /s
you sound like a racist.
wtf
we don't have coquettes now, it's all alone jo louis
[deleted]
it is not false...
you forgot the price of rents and houses
not the english, the ontarians.
besides, poutine is not canadian too.
i would like us to resolve this.
it's not been long since i discovered on / r but i have the impression that the posts "confinement is too much" are new while the posts "the english are po bin fin", the / ra more or less was created for that
i don't know why, i read this meme about "working is too hard, and flying is not beautiful".
i prefer confinement to english speakers
we are tired of the abuse of both. that's all. and this from a 2.5-lingual person who believes in learning other languages. and that all quebecers should speak english.
the lack of logic of confinement and the lack of respect for our culture on the part of the english-speaking community are irritants.
i mean ...
i like when people talk about protecting french by saying “fak asteur, must be leaders, okay?”
to play the victim compared to the english is not new, it is a long tradition on the sub. it's easy karma.
> pi the english are po bin fin
more like quebec all along
as for "pi les anglais sont po bin fin", it's been like that for several years on / r / quebec. there is a fairly marked separatist tendency.
yes sir
based.
"po bin fin" ?
no idea what is that
quebec loves cheemsburgers
nailed it
"worse the english are po bin fin": [ (
i mean ... yeah, they're not good with us.
it's not normal, when we speak french in a country that claims to be bilingual french-english, that we are told that we do not speak french well and that we should just speak english and shut our eyes, conversely, when we decide to assert ourselves, we are pointed out by being told that we are playing the victim and that we are disturbing. the english will never be satisfied with quebeckers, we just make them exist and that annoys them. at some point, can you just assume in our language, ciborium?
dude it will soon be 10 years that i am on this sub and the english are not fine, they are colonialists, their only culture is tim hortons, etc. it's been 10 years that it lasts, but it's made less worse.
some will remember u / jeanaimard, he was the worst, and i'll be polite and stop there, but let's say the atmosphere was pretty toxic for a while ...
boomers = not good too.
true
two indisputable truths ...;)
after a while on any sub you ended up seeing it all. regardless of the information, everything is recycled in the same and the same comments are copy paste. the same as the lines opened in time. you listened to sports fans and heard the same nonsense day after day. the amount of discussion the world can have is always limited to the same topics. even hyper-moderate sub like askhistorian, people don't even search past posts and ask the same questions.
and don't you agree or what?
i took the opportunity to complain
100 people in the same building to pray to a goddamn god that you can pray at home instead and i can't go see my friends alone at their place? there are plenty of them who have zero respect for the containment measures and have the rewards by giving them 100 people in the same room. why am i making all these efforts if it's just the religious who benefit? the government will lose control of the world. there is no logic, and more and more people have reached their limit. it's just stupid.
lower st-laurent we want to turn yellow. "no, you don't have enough people to vaccinate". why do we have fewer vaccines? because we literally have less than 5 new cases per day out of a population of 200,000 inhabitants. so basically we don't have the right to be too loose in the restrictions ... because we don't have enough cases?
i have put up with the measures and the government for a long time in a pandemic, but this spring they lose me 100%.
maybe someday they'll get back on the muslims. or perhaps the hot new trend of english muslims.
wait, spring is near, the anti / pro cyclist posts are coming.
worse anti masks / vaccines!
criss c dear!
true
r / poutineisquebecois
> not the english, the ontarians.
you're late for the news, now it's albertans.
canadians in the west are not very smart, but those in the east are relatively nice.
we should start a r / quebeccirclejerk
on the one hand yes i agree that the english in the end it's a bit of a circle jerk, but at the same time there is nothing that instantly pissed me off as much as when i went to a dep in westmount and even if i was talking to the guy in french, he answered me in english.
it was my tokébekicitte moment.
not to say that i did exactly the same thing is that something i can't do ...
me too overboard
me it is the strawberry confinement that i prefer.
i am quebecer but my mother tongue is english. i am italian by origin, i always got along well with french speakers, i grew up with lots of quebecers and honestly, it is thanks to them that my french today is still not worse. i wonder what's going on with the anglos? i'm just curious 😆
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait .......
and if we confine the anglophones?
:'(
> i prefer confinement to english speakers
is confinement to english speakers being stuck at home listening to netflix?
>pro: a progressive, safe and **multicultural** country.
>con: a lot of people here speak french.
what disturbs them is our very existence. unlike the acadians whom they managed to deport by the thousand, there were too many of us. 400 years later, here we are still standing with half a state and half national pride. lack of our independence!
"all quebecers should speak english"
i think there are many who would send you out for a walk (with good reason) if you told them they should speak english.
> 2.5lingue
what's your half-tongue?
i am talking to people about the need for * french * schools in ontario (and not just catholic). someone just called me a "québexican", so you can see it's going very well. 🤦🏻‍♀️
joual is not a threat to french.
normative french is a colonized language than english for me. faque i see no problem with your case
the joual exists because the english-speaking bosses of our grandparents gave their orders in english. their way of speaking is the result of not protecting quebec culture.
it's our political situation, it's not "playing the victim", the nono.
toaster!
nonscorec
i'm new to french, can someone explain that to me, "tsu cht'aide"? i understand "help", of course, but not the other words. thank you!
'zwind'help?
it makes me think with my boyfriends when you ask the other what he is doing by saying "c'tu criss?"
can you help?
potamogle
coum’main?
i'd read a novel with dialogue written like that, serious.
r/decreasinglyverbose
i said
"did you get any help?" "
patamogle
v'tu dlaède?
le what does this mean
pastor
it's like saying i don't know, but it's chépa
kessé do you see?
and
kessé you want, * criss * (for the close friends)
you know that the person who will help you the most among the three is "tsu cht'aide".
"tsu ch'taide" asks if you need help and is already actively helping you.
de ques'ta b'soin ?!
i don't speak french much but it's correct
an eeeeeeerrrstiiiiii of loooooooooooong toton that charlo fists ad infinitum
awaye ginette
the virgin parisian vs the chad montrealer
this is why anglos can't pick up french in quebec.
not skeret
there is no bo
"tsu" means do you want to. cht'aide means i help you (basically). it's more how you pronounce it and not how you write it.
it's to imitate "do you want me to help you", but said very quickly. "tsu" is for "do you want" (and the "that" is not said). the j '/ je is often pronounced "ch" by several people, as in "i am" which becomes "chui".
do you want = tsu
que = not pronounced
ch't'aide = i help you
i'm learning french too, but i don't learn quebec phrasing in french class 😕 (i'm sorry if my grammar is bad)
- yo stu criss?
- po grand, pointe toé on chill
lol i was strong
plasticine?
samouiche
it's up to you to become the new michel tremblay!
fancy way to say may i help you. sort of...
\ * what is the f \ * \ * k
correc*
waaa
tétsucorrec?
or the french
there are rdjienque asforcer
well c'chill
ahhh i understand! thank you!
ah thank you
how do you pronounce "do you want" like "tsu"? is the "ts" a mixture of "t" and "want" or only an "x"?
i understand now, thanks for the explanation!
i say tsu q'chtaide? but hey it comes even late
my little american fear can not understand: /
your grammar is su'a calice de coche, you don't have to apologize my owl.
replace criss by crazy and you have a frequent exchange during my adolescence!
yes
reception ** prion ** ist. this is the guy who gets [prions] ( //fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/prion_ \ (prot% c3% a9ine \))?
> find the error
do not look long ...
hydro quebec is so legendary. it was probably the company least likely to have such captivating quebec social networks, but at the same time it's perfect because hydro is bcp more emblematic for us quebecers than a private company like mcdonalds or the like.
he got apostrophized ... and he needed it.
hydro quebec is a national source of pride. hydro quebec's facebook is a national treasure.
well done hydro.
i really want to know if jacques answered
i am of the opinion that a woman is the equal of a man at work 98% of the time, no doubt.
there are still physiological limits. in my early days as a college student, i saw two policewomen trying to subdue a guy who was my stature coming out of a bar.
6 feet, not particularly fit. anyway, they weren't able to even pepper it. honestly, i was afraid they would pull out their guns and it would get out of hand. finally the backup arrived and it ended well.
it still convinced me that there are indeed types of jobs that are more conducive to men.
having said that, i work for hq. this dude is a jerk. lineman does not fit into the 2%.
jacques would have done well to close his eyes and stay in 1950.
the best possible answer haha excellent
seriously, it must be said, the guy who runs the hydro page is a genius.
hydro playing the classic awaiting game xd
can someone translate their comment? i reread 6 times in vain
that's not passive aggressive. if he doesn't get it. he is a lost cause guys. let that type die out on it's own. if he willing to change. give him a chance. but his comment. wow. i'm speechless.
edit: let's be clear i have the same problem with this type of mentality anywhere in the world. no matter anything. wow.
based hydro
at the same time jacques big black rectangle he says a lot of bullshit ...
the aggressive passive on twitter is always terrifying.
the sq had been tweeting similar for a while. it was excellent haha
turn the ereurh into his ortograf
we cancel jacques!
at least he tried
[deleted]
the wonder of quotas ...
he wanted to recipriapist
he is right, everyone knows that we men are not a good receptionist. we are more of the type to waste our prayers than to receive them.
hydro-quebec and the saaq are next level on social networks haha
jacques probably clicked on a questionable link received from his friend réal.
jacques has surely returned to his cave
[deleted]
i agree 100%. it's like the fitness standards for firefighters. it doesn't make sense to intentionally have people with less strength for a job like that.
imagine a situation where a firefighter is unable to get a 200lb person out of a building and has to wait for a stronger person to arrive. we want to avoid that.
i work a physical job with around 2% of women. i love everything they bring, a breath of fresh air.
however, they are still injured. it is not uncommon for 50-75% to be on sick leave at the same time.
it is still anecdotal as an example, because i saw the opposite situation.
i don't think there is any job that would not benefit from having people and points of view of both sexes. there are physical limits to certain jobs, i agree, but you shouldn't think that if it's tough it's not for girls.
edit: a very important words
i had a friend in high school, the smallest in the cohort, like 5ft 3in. he is a police officer today and has not grown older.
we should just stop telling where to write things like you just did. women have their place everywhere! what you probably wanted to say is: the police forces should choose their members more rigorously and maybe set a minimum size ... but even there, many will have excellent arguments to dissuade you from this new opinion, which is she too, retrograde eg u / wondahwall
we should just stop discriminating on the basis of sex. of course, that would probably reduce the proportion of women in certain trades, but it's not the end of the world.
they would have been justified in drawing their guns if their lives were in danger. it works the same for male police officers. the only problem i see in your story is the bar guy fighting with the police and endangering them and not the sex of the officers.
passing on the 20, i have already seen three stout and masculine policemen sandwiching a man to hold him up; it's just anecdotes that we made there and it's not representative of reality
do you think two guys who are 5'3 "and 140 pounds can do better? what if both women are guys like tia carrere?
it's two guys, they were interviewed by radio canada or tva last year i think: p
in french it's:
" find the error. not funny to be there. the female editor and the male receptionist. "
even better: we expose it. as with museums, relics from the past are exhibited.
hydro has been doing this for several years.
? quotas ?
wtf xd
must stop with sexism, a woman can do the job as well as a man and even better!
in my opinion, positive discrimination (quotas) is no worse for boosting the process of equality. you must also understand that giving a privilege of employment to women and minorities in under-represented jobs, it prevents incompetent men (pcq y'en a crisse) find themselves in positions that will rather go to a woman / minority that deserves it. incompetence and competence has no gender. you have to go find the best where you can find it.
the wonder of quotas and hiring bonuses for women and multiethnic people is that you can afford as an employer to send the racists and sexists who are on your floor and replace with people who are competent and who are not archaic. do you not agree with giving more opportunities to employers to fight against discrimination and problems on the floor?
the proof that feminism goes too far, men can no longer even find jobs that exist.
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
these organizations can give it their all. what is a frustrated person going to do? boycott hydro or the saaq?
“sexy single julie from saint-jérôme wants to communicate with you! click for more ”
www.lavraierité.ru
you're right. in the actual case, perhaps it should have been a case of simply assigning the right people to the right shifts. maybe two female partners at 3am leaving the bars wasn't the best combination.
i can just vouch for what i saw. i take nothing away from women and what they can bring.
as others have mentioned, for certain specific jobs, if they qualify according to the same physical criteria as men, then hallelujah! but i'm not convinced that lowering the requirements to make room for them is a very safe thing.
again, i would like to reiterate that my comment applies for a micro portion of the jobs.
for the uninitiated, jean-michel martel regularly does photoshops of the kind. my favorite is definitely [the barbies ad cd] ( toune-des-pubs-de-barbies /).
what is going on with this hair
do they sell the pq's bonjour ho! signs? translates into english as hello salope!
i recognize your face from the pogo meme lol.
criss that jm martel makes me laugh
strangely enough, the correct french term is "smoking" while "tuxedo" would be a loan from english.
oh yes! the holes as we like them
i heard it for the first time at la soirée est encore jeune and it is brilliant!
no budding within 9 meters!
james bond: :(
don't let go jimmy neutron
google translate is not improving
inside? hahahaha
this is well translated
whoa, the! or is your mask, man?
no wonder all my neighbours smoke inside the building.
faillllllll
yep ... not strong (however, it's still funny 😂)
i think this is the best 😱
the guy who did that should be in jail 😝 / s
it is rather his hairstyle which is approximate
i can't believe ...
🎼⅔ 🎺 what a ♯🎝 feast! 🎵 what a ♬ ♯ atmosphere! 🎝🎜
they have been confined for too long.
it's like his forelock is trying to social distancing with his forehead
their planet needs them.
"is that styling gel?"
[deleted]
there is a certain style
and can i get them for gloryhole purposes?
me, i prefer to the french hey dirty bitch! or the affectionate version hey pupute! (in tk that's how my french and moroccan friends greet me and frankly i find it a perfect mix of english and vulgar familiarity! it's like longueuil on the set! i * kif *!)
hello-ho! was an initiative of the bloc québécois (federal party) and not of the pq (provincial party).
he's a photoshop humorist. his name is jean-michel martel. you can find it on [instagram] (
so what about the tuxedo cake? don't tell me the cake was a lie ...
this is the first time i hear this this is hilarious
it is not a real translation. it's a photoshop
oops, what's the correct môt?
the main thing is that it is funny, especially in these difficult times!
it's a photoshop dude
username checks out!
chez barbies resto bar grill ohhh ohhh ohhh oh oh oh bar-bies
it's doing well at vaporwave or futurefunk ...
he was attacked by a protromp anti-masssque hairdresser who took pity on his lack of freedom! she "arranged the porrtrrait" for him so to speak
it's the "sleep with wet hair" cut
there's something about doipukupik
that's exactly what it is
no, only because the pq prefers the term "glory hole"
in my family, puputes are baby feet.
you're right. ciao-bye-bitch.
"between" would be the best choice or use "in" only. or use "less than", or "under". there are many choices for the right occasion
well said paul. i didn't know about bill 17 in ontario ...
this question made me, who is not strictly speaking a sovereignist, vote for the bloc.
my father once got royally angry during a conversation with an ontarian. i only heard the ontarian say something like “language police” and “quebec” in the same sentence. my father, a franco-ontarian, had government inspectors coming into his school to make sure the children were not taught in french. he had a sister at the main door of the building with a bell every day and if she saw an inspector approaching the school she would sound the alarm to tell the educators to hide the french books in the vault behind the classroom. (the inspectors were not allowed to open the vault) it always ended with my father saying "language police?" you guys invented the language police. "
i am english speaking, but i would like to see that all the people who want their children to be educated in french can find this service in ontario.
there was no particular reason why my parents registered me for the french school, but i liked it very much.
i apologize for my broken french, i want to practice it here.
canada anglais from sea to sea
* deport acadians from acadia
* [prolétarise] ( french canadians in quebec
* prevents french from being taught in ontario (regulation 17)
* hangs the métis chief founder of manitoba louis riel
english canadian conclusion on the secularization of quebec: these frogs are racist
it was on fire
no tva guy, but i've always liked paul larocque.
no, but what condescending hypocrites. sometimes i would like to slap in the face. just strong enough for it to pinch and put their minds back in place.
"ah worse farme which your eyes / slap"
[deleted]
/ u / savevideo
as well as being completely relevant and justified, i love this well-articulated, thoughtful, anderson cooper style of commentary. it is lacking in quebec.
calling an entire nation a racist is the dumbest thing i have ever heard people discriminate against, but it is an insult to put all eggs in one basket.
i voted bloc. not true that we are going to be walked on the same way.
it's not new, it's been going on for over 150 years.
it is enough to always be accountable to hypocritical mom canada who sees us as the black sheep. let's stand up and fight for our freedom
i don't see how it will help their cause. they shot each other within 2 feet. i think the bloc will make even more gains than in 2019. imagine how much they despise quebec for being blind to the fact that it was going to work against them. they clearly can't see beyond their noses (or the ottawa river if you prefer).
paul larocque is the best
this debate confirms a sad reality that i accepted not so long ago ... as larocque said these questions have been approved by the institution which is supposed to be the "top" of the world. journalistic / intellectual integrity of canada and that's what they think of us, an entire people who are supposed to be racist.
we cannot trust them. they will stab you in the back. even those who seem cultured / cosmopolitan / leftist say exactly the same anti-quebecois, i still have a hard time getting over it ... after years of delusions, an untenable situation of double-exact.
if you have something good to share, do it in french first, we have to stand between us and become strong together.
english canada sucks. quebec should secede.
paul and yve are legendary esti
of course i can't cross post to r/canada
and this story is not the only one ...
the purpose of bill 87 on educational reform in new brunswick, in 1871, was to structure the system, while abolishing denominational schools and religious symbols in them. so far all has been going well, but the problem is that the vast majority of french-speaking schools are run by convents and nuns, the latter being essentially the only french-speaking people with sufficient education for this. you withdraw the nuns, you withdraw the french-speaking schools. there was a lot of grumbling (by grumbling i mean here “riot with the dead”), and fortunately it was possible to continue to receive an education in french, but it took that for it to be possible to preserve these rights.
the methods of assimilation, whether direct or by the gang claiming a superior virtue, can be counted like that all over the country, and the consequences are still being felt. when you point the finger at someone, you have 3 pointing at you.
you can't get roasted if you don't know what he's saying!
if i can use the ocr language:
- did i just witness a murder with words?!
i agree with him. legault does not admit that we are engaging in systemic racism against aboriginals and blacks, but we too experience racism on the part of anglo-canadians. i think that most quebecers in reality accept that our system is racist towards blacks and natives because we also experience linguistic discrimination, and therefore that is why we are the first province to deeply want to change how our police schools walk, that we pay attention to what we teach young people in schools about our history. we are simply trying to erase the discrimination that minorities experience in quebec (obviously there are also racist, homophobic quebecers and all that sort of thing, but there are fewer and fewer). personally, i do not approve of the fact that in quebec people in the public service cannot wear religious symbols, because the argument that this will influence children is false. on the contrary, quebec has always been a land for people who are discriminated against, we have always spoken french and are discriminated against for that. multiculturalism and nationalism can and must coexist. each person is unique, to their culture and knowledge, but each of our fellow citizens with their different cultures on certain points brings new visions and aspects to our great quebec culture. we must continue to make all immigrants learn french, but these immigrants also bring their cultures and add to our quebec culture, the greatest and varied in the world, the most beautiful. i love my quebec nation, that's why i accept its faults and fight to improve our nation, so that it becomes a country, a haven on earth. i went far but i just wanted to express my love for quebec, for our great culture which is tolerant and which is the most beautiful in the world. quite the opposite of anglo-canadian culture in itself.
/ nomd'utilisateurcheck
/ u / savevideo
"dead ass" is there a translation for that please it's the only thing that comes to mind for what i just said xd
* rôtit
when i heard the question and the inappropriate arguments of the host, i too said to myself, fuck the roc, i'm going to vote bloc!
after reflection, i wonder if i have not been manipulated.
trudeau has a slim lead. the conservatives will be poor in quebec, apart from the geographic anomalies covered by radio waves in quebec city. such a provocation, what am i saying, a slap in the face of quebecers, can only provoke an anti-canada wave and favor the bloc. to the detriment of whom? the liberals, which has the effect of favoring the conservatives across the country.
i was going to vote bloc anyway. but i refuse to agree with this consortium of pseudo-intellectual shits. they bet on the emotional reaction of quebecers to a proxy insult. i seriously think to vote liberal, which i have never done before, precisely to signify a well felt and independentist "fuck the roc".
.
as a franco-ontarian in quebec, i'm fed up with being used as a scapegoat during discussions on bill 21, etc ... i'm very aware of our history in ontario and i'm proud of those and those who fight for our culture and services in french. i know that the situation in general in ontario is quite ordinary… but…
seems to me that the venn diagram of people who say “mais les francos hors-québec” and those who treat us as anglos, assimilated, false francos when they meet us is a circle. we can't win, man.
with all due respect, isn't bill 101 exactly the same as bill 17?
law 17 was passed in 1912 and was repealed in 1927. to talk about it like that is just a deflection. it's ancient history.
today french is taught everywhere in canada. if this is the best example that you have of discrimination against francophones, it is very weak.
ohhh quebec, québécois and their never ending drama 😂😂😂
meh. it is another form of identity politics, "wokism", that many people say they hate.
then choquepikachu.jpg when others vote liberal for similar reasons.
oh fuck off
he reads the text prepared by his henchmen well.
but still 100% true.
why defend french? personally i would have liked to have spoken english better and it should be english everywhere in north america, less complicated caliss, of course i prefer to say tabarnac than fuck but in tk there is more future in english sorry
ayoye, are you serious? do you really want to achieve independence through victimization speech like this?
i do not see what this question has so vicious: in the end, what it asks is how blanchet can both be for the quebec exception in canada and at the same time be in favor of laws which limit them for certain minorities in quebec ... it is a justified question. on the other hand, any mention of racism and discrimination is indeed unwelcome. to say that quebec is neither more nor less racist than the rest of canada (except vis-à-vis muslims), as journet reminds us in la presse, is to draw rather hasty conclusions. because, in fact, quebec remains the province where newcomers have the most difficulties, as shown by the employment rate differential for this category. is this an indication of systemic racism? not sure. but it's worth taking steps to eliminate this gap.
personally, i find this federal election campaign the worst that i have seen. blanchet and paul have nothing to do on the tv sets since they do not even present candidates in all the constituencies and therefore, they cannot claim power. they are there to make noise and nothing else. duplessian interventions by legault are completely inappropriate. the behavior and cynicism of these leaders absolutely justifies the public's mistrust. i will be surprised if the participation rate exceeds 50%.
english canadians really live in your heads rent free mdr
discrimination against french-speaking canadians outside quebec does not justify discrimination against individuals who want to wear a religious symbol at work. both deserve a dialogue. it's classic whataboutism.
in ontario, there would today be more than 2 million francophones if this law had not existed. but for them "its the past" would have to come back, despite the fact that these communities still live today with the prejudices of decades of assimilatory policies.
in quebec, francophones were starving to the point that a million expatriated to the united states in the 1800s, simply to have access to a job in a factory ... this is significant, because over 10 years, this 'was a large portion of the population. we could be a territory of 15-20 million if we had been treated more fairly
[enforcement stopped in 1927 and it was repealed on 1944. ](
[deleted]
regulation 17 is a regulation of the ontario ministry of education, adopted in 1912 by the conservative government of prime minister sir james p. whitney1. the regulations prohibit the use of french "as a language of instruction and communication" in bilingual schools in public and separate networks. the regulation was subsequently repealed in 1927 by the government of howard ferguson.
i can't wait to talk about it on r / canada. see how i'm gonna get downvoted. or be told that it is different because they were white francophones. or something like that.
i have just voted for the bloc after having been an npd all my life, so i am in a beautiful tabarnaco.
i would not go to vote bloc. i'm a native of ontario so i'm having a hard time justifying it. but i am 100% in agreement. it affected me deeply then i considered it
the bloc will not make quebec independent, you can continue to sleep soundly. they will just defend the interests of quebec in ottawa.
should i find a photo to post but mine has a child's head with two or three halos of hair ... 80s like?
[deleted]
never had to show this to anyone in my life.
i must have missed an update, i just have my covid vaccines in my cell ...
please remind me that i am 30 years old.
listen here ... i work in health, have had my doses for a long time, etc. but that is really dishonest as a comparison. you are aware that those who oppose the vaccine passport it is because of its application, not because it is now electronic. you sure know, right?
it does not help your cause of arguments like that, i always see the "there is nothing new", yes, there is new. if you think this news is okay, good. tell us why.
do not pretend that a system of verification of vaccination status implemented in all private companies open to the public that prevents you from simply being on the scene is "nothing new". it is a normal and ordinary part of the functioning of the health system to mandate minimum wage teens in restaurants to start conflicts with adults who have not taken a certain vaccine. especially when this code, unlike a test, does not prove that you do not have the virus or that you cannot transmit it, only that the risk is reduced. my vaccine booklet is in a drawer at my parents' house because it has not been used for like 20 years.
if you are in favor of the covid vaccine passport, this meme is a great way to reinforce the opinion of those who oppose it because it is really stupid as a comparison.
i never needed to show that to go eat my poutine. thats it.
there are very valid arguments for the vaccine passport and against the vaccine passport, this one does not fall into this category and i would consider it rather dangerous, as it would pave the way for any use.
people against the health passport are not against the historization of vaccines received by a person but against the systematic obligation to present their vaccination status to enter non-essential public places, it is completely different and it is never seen, apart from a few previous ones:
- the vaccination status of children at school is sometimes asked, but a child does not have the capacity to decide which vaccines he can and should receive
- travel to another country, but you have to comply with the requirements of the country in question.
the danger of this argument is that it has no end. let us take an extreme case, if one day we ask for proof in essential places, then parks, then a more dangerous variant arrives and we ask it to go out for a walk (scan which is used to unlock your door): are you going to say , well what did we already have now it's on your cell? this is not a valid argument because it does not answer the real debate on the issue.
i wouldn't have had a problem with a digital vaccination record, the problem happens when you have to present it to go do just about anything except the grocery store and you get discriminated against if you don't have it.
if only those of my children could be electronic too, it would save me from all the lost assets at least 3 times already
everyone is too young to remember when we were all vaccinated for meningitis. 
cringe
we all have a pair of buttocks too and we have never had to show them to everyone except our doctor.
i'm vaccinated, but back in the day it didn't take you to go to the movies. i am against the vaccine pass. then by the way, the vaccine booklet still exists. you can get it out if you lost your old man or created another one like in my case since i had to travel to countries at risk of all kinds of diseases.
not at all the same.
2 aspects to consider
1. the unconstitutional borderline intrusive aspect
2. data collection
the one foot in the door aspect of big brother, we have all thought about it, some put their heads in the sand and others admit it. let's talk about data instead. will the gvt keep the data? will he be able to say that i go to mcdonald's twice a week and to the cinema cochon la fds? and if so, how secure is this database? let's say yes, they keep the data.
of course my data alone is worth nothing but that of all of us is worth a lot. there is the risk of compiling the data of all quebecers and that they may be hacked and sold at a good price. uncool.
was this question put to mr. dubé?
it's really not the same.
fake paper proof should suffice, right?
* sort by controversial *, my favorite hobby
never needed to present that, that's it!
a review of this comparison:
a notebook that documents your vaccine history vs. a digital id that documents all your trips.
-
you can be for or against the vaccine. for or against the same vaccination pass, but to say that it is the same thing ... no.
this kind of thinking does not help the discussion.
[deleted]
it's a no worse case the same
i have a lot of trouble with this comparison.
i never had to present my vaccination record anywhere except when i was pregnant to find out if i had received my pertussis vaccine.
the same goes for the damn argument of "it's not worse than a driver's license". i don't show my driver's license everywhere. i drag it in my pockets and except for the elections, i never take it out.
and the other argument: but you are already tracked by your celll !!!! well, maybe i'm one of the few who don't always walk around with their cell phone and don't have all 1000 social network apps on it.
yes, the vaccination passport is a precedent. and that worries me.
yeah but i didn't need that to get into the bars
it used to be my personal info and i didn't need to show it to everyone to have the right to have a normal life. now if i don't, i'm treated like a sewer rat and blamed for the misery of society.
what is happening right now with the health pass is illegal and it's fundamentally bad. this creates an unhealthy division among the people, segregation for promises that will not be kept yet again. even if you have the vaccine, the measurements will not be bored and you can still catch and transmit the virus; as much to say that it is useless.
this whole situation that we are going through is unfair because the covid survival rate is almost 100%. it is therefore not a fatal disease. i understand that people at greater risk want to be vaccinated, but from there to threaten others as well and circumvent the law without debate and with a total lack of transparency? nothing can ever justify that in my eyes, ever.
this province used to be cool, now it’s shit hole.
i have never been prevented from going to the mcbouette because i did not have my health record.
i don't remember because i never had to use it. i don't even know where.
my french is terrible. what does that mean, "well that's it on your cell"?
i still have mine
i remember that. hasn't been updated since i was like 12-14
meh, not a nice match. you kept your notebook at home, you shouldn't show it to someone every time someone asks you to go somewhere
wee
take all my gold!
ok, fine, but seriously, that the mask, distancing, etc., remain when we are just in the presence of people 2 doses i find it ordinary.
i will be a good player and assume that we will subsequently reduce the measures after presentation of the passport, but as it is there i find that it is a big waste of public funds
i have never been asked to show this notebook to live my life in quebec, however.
what?
i surely misunderstood op me, i was sure it was to promote the canimmunize app (which has been around for a long time).
the big difference is that we did not need this vaccination record to enter a cafe, bar, gym etc ...
youssé quié the qr code là-d'su? ah ok.
that's it.
it's just his.
it is so isso.
thick, a vaccination record has nothing to do with a vaccinal passport. lol.
same business except that there is electronic and that it leaves traces everywhere. not to mention all the abuses of power (violated rights) that will follow.
confuse the right of health care with a bureaucratic object, check.
well there is also that it is required to enter many places and that it is still experimental vaccines but that is a small detail
does everyone in quebec speak french?
[deleted]
that's it
"dictature" - chest guy doing a live in his living room with trump flags.
beautiful fallacy.
just reading this story made me smile!
thanks for sharing, it was cute. i too often find myself stupid, but i am learning to cheer myself up. not easy when your whole life is structured around optimizing your time and money, worse on the accomplishment of tasks and functions. you have to learn to disengage again.
i like it to give people really random compliments, just because i say pretty much whatever pops into my head, and most of the time it makes you smile.
i came home with my mother, then arrived nearby, we each take out their key at the same time, and without saying anything, we raced to the door ...
yes but do you have a good recipe with your dianô sauce?
check me bin do my groceries by sprinting in each aisle from tomorrow
we all need a pti sir sometimes
we want to hear more of the same stuff, it warms my heart to hear (read) people having random fun like that
what's magical about it is that with this gesture, you are no longer advocated doing something similar to someone else, and so on, the butterfly effect can go on like that for a long time. we need it more than ever. keep smiling everyone, life is good despite the gray weather.
this anecdote amply deserves the silver that i got for free! thank you for sharing it with us.
my dream is to one day become this old man!
i miss quebec for these little interactions. people tend to laugh. i always came back from shopping with a funny situation, a little joke.
i moved to victoria bc for the weather and the nature but lost that. people here have a harder time having a sense of humor, it's more stressed, more judgmental, i still try to joke around but the world looks at me like i'm a threat to normalcy, if they're looking at me , most of the time they are looking down, when they aren't making a face.
and i miss it.
i want to chase old people to the grocery store too, okay.
i read it aloud to my husband! it made our evening! thank you for sharing ❤️
it feels good to read this, and remember that sometimes it doesn't take much to make a difference in someone's day!
> i left to run with and we did a race until the end of the alley. at the end of the day, we both just started laughing.
who is it that won?
i can't believe i just got chills for a grocery aisle run, thank you!
\ - a clerk who has his basket full of the pandemic
for me that's what i miss the most. the opportunity to talk / interact with strangers is made impossible. i don't count the customer service people, they just want to cash in, no time for chatting random.
no, i'm talking about talking to the dude next to me at the bar while i wait for the barman to serve me pcq we both laugh at the dude who just got out through the bouncer.
lucky that i have my partner.
you just have to try to keep your child's heart.
we are forced to age physically but aging mentally is a choice! thanks for the story, it made me smile!
thank you for sharing, my day is off to a good start :)
i had the same kind of interaction at canadian pulls in tank brooms. a beautiful moment.
the man was testing the brooms, like the range, the feeling etc. i pick up a broom and i quietly practice swigning like in baseball. the gentleman does not react immediately, but there he checks me, jle check we start laughing and we wish each other a good day.
wholesome af
[removed]
thank you and fabien is well?
what's the adage, "life is too important to take seriously"? i think your publication is the very example :).
that's why people get addicted to crack
crisse that things are happening at super c!
thanks for sharing!
10/10, a little positive is always pleasant.
hello, it was me, the old man. i remember you well young man.
it made me happy to make you smile. but the truth is, you stank.
alternative: to really oppose the measures which made us transition into an authoritarian country.
for real, the world is afraid to do it, and i admire those who do. being told by a stranger wow i really like your hair, eyes, wtv, it's always fun :)
i would like that too, but it's not the same game when you're a guy!
i love those moments when you become a child again for a moment.
sometimes it's fun to take life lightly.
ordinary
it often happens to me to make small, simple gestures like that. i like to pay the bill for people back at the drive-thru. i already pay $ 50 for an order of 4 construction guys back. they tipped the cashier and came to thank me (i was eating in the car, in the parking lot of the restaurant haha). it was just fun to see that they were all super happy, thanks to such a trivial little gesture at the base.
i think i arrived. 5 seconds before him lol
your reddit name is magic. no brad !!
so much so that it should be called * c super *
what a fall!
you have to get out of it!
this is what makes having no filter: ') sometimes it is positive.
i told a couple that they both looked like models, they were so unreally beautiful. you should have seen the exchange of looks they had together and the boost of confidence and pride, it was really cute!
i think it just feels good to have positive reinforcement from a stranger. we all have, somewhere, the need to please without really wanting it. it's just human to love to please without forcing yourself to do so. when someone notices us and compliments us as much on our physique or whatever our action, it can only strengthen self-confidence as much for the person giving the compliment, as for the one who receives it.
i give more compliments to men than to women. less risky
pi has never made me look crooked, i don't give vrm a lively gay saying "hey are your socks sick, are you banging that or?"
or "vrm nice your tattoo, bro"
personally it never bothered me a guy who compliments me, as long as it stays pg-13. a word of advice: girls really like to be told that something they have chosen on their own looks good (ie their hairstyle, their style, etc.). i guess there isn't that same unease when you compliment another guy.
you shouldn't cook it, just eat it with a spoon.
[removed]
haaaa is good!
ah, but there is always a little ulterior motive, as if a compliment from a guy couldn't be free.
and compliment other guys, forget it! every time i get complimented by a guy it's a gay who cruises me!
i am jealous
hello everyone, i am an independent cinema owner here in qc.
to clarify the situation, here is what happened:
we had them as info in january that we weren't going to reopen until at least mid march.
after the announcement of the orange zones for a week, the cinémas de chicoutimi, rouyn val d'or etc can reopen with the same conditions as last summer.
so far everything is normal. then comes this week, we learn about the pm conference at the same time as everyone else that we will open next friday for the break period which is traditionally a very busy period.
at first glance we are happy, but in the end this "gift" is much more poisoned than it looks.
after the announcement, we learn from unofficial sources that we will have to give / sell a blue protective mask per customer (the homemade face cover does not pass). the cover made remains in place. (most of our business is done between 7pm and 10:30 pm in the evening).
and finally, the big point that hits very hard, no open snack and no food consumed in the room.
if you think we're just mad that we can't sell food and that everyone is going to bring their bag of chips to hide in their coats, that's not the case. arruda was clear, he has no food consumption there, whether it's the buttery popcorn you sell at the snack bar, the subway you slip into your pants or the starbucks coffee in your satchel.
the snack is our livelihood.
in our business, if i sell a ticket for $ 10, i have to give at least $ 5 to the distributor, bigger ones like disney is $ 6.50 a ticket.
not enough to pay the expenses, so the need for the snack bar.
it is the same situation as a restaurant which opens but which does not have the right to sell wine, alcohol, coke, pepsi. the bulk of his profit isn't on his steak, but the $ 10 beer he charges you.
another example, a gas station that can open only to sell gas, again the profit margin is with the chips, liquor, beer and chocolate bars it sells inside. not the gasoline itself.
do you see where i am going?
when we got them confirmation last night that all of this was true, we did our calculations and the result was no surprise. we are going to lose money opening our doors.
yes spring break should not be that bad but after that, phew it's going to be weeks of misery, are you really going to have "full" rooms on a wednesday afternoon at 4:30?
where i live, it has mountains of skis, it's their moment of glory because everyone is looking for activities to do and yet the majority are closed on mondays, tuesdays.
so me with my cinema can you really hope for the best?
many of us decided it was not worth opening up and the media rushed into the situation. legault gave an emergency conference this morning where he said the govt will help us cover the lost costs. once again, unofficially, we realized that it was more of an order than a choice. the govt wants the cines to be open for the release, preferring that people go and have fun with us in a controlled environment rather than meeting illegally at one another.
for those who believe our industry is taking millions from the government, think again, we have received zero support all along.
my business is over 200k in debt last time i checked i don't have a ferrari in my parking lot.
the entertainment industries are among the hardest hit by this damn pandemic, i had to let go of more than half of my staff this summer.
apart from that, in a world where the right workforce is difficult to find, i can proudly say that my employees stayed with us for 5 to 8 years and more, usually leaving us only at the end of their studies.
it broke my heart to have to thank them like that. the older ones cut themselves off from the shifts to offer them to the newer ones, and even then the lack of new films was felt and the traffic was not there.
i am sincerely sorry if op lost her job. but understand one thing, the vast majority of venue owners are not like vincent.
fyi i know him personally, he is not necessarily like the media portray him, but he doesn't mince words and in a blunt way that i can't necessarily stand but respect all the same.
in conclusion, we have no fun opening with such conditions, but we will probably do it anyway because failing to do so could cause irreparable image damage to our industry.
i hope this text enlightens you a little on the situation, if you have any questions on all this you can ask me.
edit 1: we collectively made the decision to open! it remains to be seen what cineplex and guzzo do!
those who want to cheer us on, please visit your local cinema!
thanks for the awards!
it is even the opposite, it is you who pays it ...
especially since i don't like mr guzzo, it must be admitted that it makes no financial sense for a cinema to open when there is a curfew (the cinemas are only open at night during the week during the school period, fault since we mainly hire young people) and prohibit the sale of food.
if it weren't for the image of the millionaire tycoon that mr. guzzo projects, people would be much more sympathetic to the fact that cinemas are allowed to be opened under absolutely ridiculous conditions. in itself another false government promise.
so think first of pointing the finger at our government, which is satisfied with half-measures that ultimately make no one happy.
send it on the fb page to lego and then to the government of quebec
excellent montage photo
i recommend everyone not to fall into the trap and boycott cinemas.
can i ask the government to also compensate the third of my salary lost last year?
one minute. fak. the government will give money to views. pass they can sell small popcorn for $ 12. ok ok. fak. fuck homeless people, fuck community organizations, fuck nurses and especially fuck mental health. while my patients are dying (literally) of psychological distress, the money goes into the sights? ah ok ok. scusez, i had to get it out, i got it.
aaaaarrrrkkkkkkkkk i just saw what it is on the news on the theaters. but why does he think giving theaters money to open them for spring break is a good idea ?!
my god, there are better ways to keep families happy during spring break and fund indoor and outdoor activities without wasting it on the theaters.
quebec city offered online activities during the carnival, and before that they even prepared a website to offer free artistic, cultural, yoga activities, to help families and individuals during the pandemic. fucking hell.
a boyfriend or a boyfriend
gorgeous
does everyone here think movie theater owners are guzzo? several regional cinemas are family companies that are not millionaires.
so to get help, you have to be a millionaire and chialler in tivi belle logic
i read your meme while singing la maudite machine, it sounded good.
i find guzzo pretty reckless to play these games with the government for someone with an italian name who operates a cash only business whose original funding has always been shady. when you are subsidized you have to open your books.
why go to the movies after watching netflix at home since the closures started?
you are lucky to have a drop.
i don't understand why they haven't given permission to sell popcorn. it's not worse to buy popcorn than to go get take out, and then you will sit in the room and you may move from there until the end of the film.
[/ u / theeth had called it] (
serious. i give you my awards because i'm in the same. (no i'm far from being guzzeurk)
they should be forced to pay this out of their pockets. "you have decided to accommodate the rich at the expense of your people, you can pay them, not the people!"
are you tiring anyway! all the time bawling at vat like a little bitch!
"the government will help cinemas since they will not be able to cross their customers completely."
apparently, no one has ever heard of cineplex. i thought it was pretty well known that movie theaters don't make a profit from tickets, only from concessions.
tser, we have so many more social problems to solve than to subsidize businesses because we force them to open. it opens up a pandora's box that other businesses can claim subsidies on the pretext that not selling non-essential stuff has killed their profit margin etc etc.
teachers are told they deserve a bitchy pay hike when the same prime minister was a staunch defender of our teachers' cause before he had decision-making power.
we tell our nurses the same story about the bad luck.
we tell the homeless that it's not okay to be homeless but then we turn around and pay millions in theoretical profits to cinemas that have no business to open in the context we are living. subsidize housing for the most disadvantaged, pay medical staff and teachers as well as the rest of the world, etc. nope. 🍿
ps: i have nothing against the traders or the cinemas, it is more the inequality and the contradictions of the government on a multitude of subject.
this move there, i don't understand.
theaters should have simply increased their prices, that's it that's all.
nice granny
but i'm gonna be that guy ....
*lost
pi les demarais them?
cgx🚀 do i see
close me that, if we want it is wrestling rings !!!
do you save your choice? the current caq is the result of a merger with the adq. they should have been called the caqadq (cacadecul)
neurons are too far apart 😆
did they allow the sale of food?
force yourself for grammar
spice
yet gyms are still closed
fuck you legault and your fat ass.
all the cultural industries are so battered by what is happening, it's atrocious. i wish you that it goes well with your cinema.
the world is not angry with you, the world is angry with the government for fooling us.
ps: if you are the owner of clap i love you with all my heart i would buy you a $ 500 gift card if i still lived in quebec
and is it also forbidden to sell for take-out? when leaving the viewing area, there will surely be some hungry people who would rather buy at the cinema counter, even if it means eating in their cars, than waste at least half an hour at the drive-thru counters of the restaurants in the area.
very good explanation, my question is more for the government ... why cinemas? why not the rest? (escape game, climbing room etc ...) on what scientific basis?
i wish you the best, i'm in high school and i'm lucky to have a lot of kids who think their life is over because of the college pandemic complain and we are heard 'go in distress). i imagine that you are a young adult (or a non-young adult?) and there are a lot less people who care about you but reading your text i was really comforted to know that there are who keep their good intentions and their good values even if there is no recognition for
by the way, i think that if i was an employee of your cinema and that i had lost the job i would say more that i lost my job because of the covid than because of the boss. i'm not one of your former employees, but if they look a little like the people i hang out with, they'll understand why things must have happened like this :)
raise your prices for tickets! i would be happy to pay double. we don't go to restaurants anymore, we don't go out ... it's been a year since i went to the movies.
i wish you good luck
it is great to have the point of view of someone who is directly "in" and affected. i think that if people are having frustrations right now, it is more with the government and its botched decisions. if from our living room we could already see that opening cinemas without the concessions did not make sense, i do not understand that the government had not guessed that.
questions: 
1) will finding employees so quickly be difficult?
2) how does the cinema survive on 200k of debt; it will undoubtedly take a long time to repay with the profits?
3) do you think that there are cinema owners who might consider suing the government if it turns out that the closing of theaters was not based on scientific facts, but rather on weak conjectures? ?
there are several angles to all this, but one that we could see would be the maintenance of the curfew despite the very low number of cases for fear of variants and the break week, this curfew affecting your income directly when you reopen. we have just seen the danish curfew being declared illegal in court, for example, because it was maintained only for fear of variants when the cases are now much lower. moreover, the pandemic situation there is similar to here, despite the very significant presence of the british variant.
wow, force to you! i sincerely hope that everything will pick up soon so that people like you who operate a business do not have to go into heavy debt.
and why not just increase the price of the ticket to be profitable?
people have to accept that it should cost a little more to pay for a movie theater during covid and it shouldn't be a problem most people save a lot because of covid.
i suspected a lot of what you're saying, but thanks for the clarification. we are all really sick of this pandemic. don't let go!
its sad to say but you have invested in an industry to exceed .... netflix, crave, amazon, dysney more ......
i wish good luck i had good memories in the cinema. maybe just review the formula. i would like to know the time of the room on every street corner.
i know, and it pisses off even more!
you just misinterpreted the image. bigbuttlover500 (... name criss) is spitting its popcorn * towards * the pipe.
while we are giving millions to guzzo it seems that the health system is on the verge of collapsing, on the other hand not able to put a dollar in there.
political crisis and not of health!
2-storey house: sleeping on the 2nd floor ... no air conditioning?
buy a portable air conditioner, plug the hose in the window. crisse that we are going to be well darling!
looks like he climbs a hill every 20 minutes, no way to sleep, and besides it barely manages to make my room a little cooler.
finally, cave in pis buys a "mini-split" air conditioner installed outside with a wall unit. not only does it air-condition the entire 2nd floor, but it doesn't make any fucking sound, and as a bonus it makes the 1st floor air-conditioned too so it works.
worse, it heats up the winter until -20 faque my bill goes down. :) one of the best expenses ever.
first world problem: my office is in the basement so i have to dress in length because it's too cool with the central air conditioning.
my apartment heats up so much that sometimes my air conditioning is only able to maintain the temperature at 23 degrees for hours. i have an 8000 btu so it is only used for the room and i have to close the door otherwise it does not provide
by the way, never buy a pedestal air conditioner from one pipe. the air conditioner uses the ambient air in the room to warm itself, but by doing so, it uses the cold air that it has just cooled. it is very inefficient and energy intensive. for the curious: 
pro tip: only open windows if it's colder outside!
if it's 28 inside but 32 outside, opening the windows will just make it worse.
as soon as the outside temperature drops below the inside temperature, then open all the windows and put the fans in the windows.
or buy yourself a 5,000 btu for $ 100 and start sleeping again.
buying tip: buy a window air conditioner, if for some x or y reason you can't. buy a portable air conditioner with ** two hoses ** it does a much better job than one with only one hose.
rename your party for air conditioner quebec
i have found over time that i can tolerate heat much better than most people. i drink more water, tie my hair, and accept that i'm sweating a little. i guess playing tennis in the 32 degree sun for a few years taught me to put things into perspective haha!
i even sleep with a sheet over me at night in my room not air conditioned! my boyfriend doesn't understand a thing.
heat pump for glory.
jokes on you, i leave my freezer open to cool my apartment 😎
ok that will sound like no, but habits can make us blind:
if the night has favorable conditions that is to say, cool night with normal humidity, open all your windows (don't forget your mosquito net). when the day breaks and the temperature starts to rise, close them all. it will be hot anyway, but less than outside.
i make this comment, which seems obvious because i still see too many people dying of heat in their apartments leaving their windows open during the day.
we had a heat pump installed last summer because quebec was giving a refund of $ 1,650. it's worth damn it. just this winter we saved a little more than $ 400 in heating on an average of $ 2,400 per year. in 3 years we get back in our money. this summer it will surely be cheaper and above all quieter than the window 8000btu which was not providing anyway.
question for the inhabitants of quebec: is an air conditioner essential during the summer in your city? i'm moving in a few weeks and i'm wondering if i should get one. i would say i am quite tolerant of heat (i currently live in toronto and generally keep the temperature at 25-26c)
i don't have air conditioning at home.
but i have a basement.
and a swimming pool.
the air conditioning is the people's opium (⌐ ■ _ ■)
i have the air conditioning but i hardly use it, unless it is 40 degrees celsius, i prefer to open the windows and a good old fan. i don't like that "artificial air" feeling that air conditioning provides. it's also too much of a contrast when you go from inside to outside and vice versa. it makes going outside even more painful.
it's 34 degrees at home ... i would cry but my tears evaporate
incoming humblebrag. i recently moved to a rental condo with a completely disproportionate rent. this weekend, when i saw hell outside while it was a very cool 18 ° at home without any noise #centralac i finally felt that it is worth paying dearly for the quality of life!
the only advantage of living in a semi-basement: it is 24 in my house without air conditioning and fan. 🤷🏻‍♀️
i must be in the minority but my god i hate the summer. i can't stand the heat at all. these temperatures are honestly my worst nightmare. nothing better than a good cold of -40. i find it tolerates so much better than +40!
i bought a window block in january 2019. gree 8000btu. $ 30 ..
adjusted, néteyé hose, put jig a loo in all the holes ... its virre like when it came out of the sears in 2003.
best buy ever
when you just have a unit and the choice between the place where you sleep and the place where you listen to the tivi
team anti-ac
i've been kidding my girlfriend for years to buy an air conditioner and she doesn't want to know anything. when you see the windows closed, you can't hear the birds, you can't smell the lilac in bloom. i must admit that she is right, but not everyone is lucky enough to live on the outskirts or in the countryside. still, we spend our lives inside, winter is cold there and we complain that we can't wait for the summer, but as soon as it is more than 25 we complain that it is too hot . faque i work on the 2nd in underwear with a fan in the face and i sleep in the cellar on the well-sheltered futon, and it's okay as well.
i am the leftist who does not participate in the heat islands of gotham city. i put ice in my kombucha
i don't like the air conditioning. all-the-way fan
2-storey house here + basement. ah how well i am in my 18 degrees!
drink as much water as possible.
plebs in the living room, king in the bedroom
until i went to visit my boyfriend in montreal on the 3rd floor. there i sympathize with the plebs in tbrnk.
what i don't understand is that everyone recommends taking portable air conditioners with 2 pipes instead of one, i don't mind but squealing i went around the canadian tire, réno dépôt, home hardware, best buy, walmart, nobody sells it!
plus on their websites they almost never specify if it's one or two tips, and half the places don't even give the model number to fetch the info yourself. you have to go there and try to find a clerk to work with.
i ended up letting it go and buying a one-pipe model, it works fine but i can feel the call of air in all the door frame cracks in my apartment ... not looking forward to seeing my hydro bill .
a semi-basement is worth its weight in gold in summer!
pff farmer \ * flatters his 3-ton heat pump \ *
the family in florida who keep the house at fucking 26 degrees all year round and sleep with a little transparent sheet. fucking sociopath. team 19 degrees represent.
my downstairs neighbors don't have air conditioning, but when they open their windows, it smells like yâbe, so we run on full pine air conditioning.
u / savevideo
where does this sequence come from? it tells me anything.
keeprite 18,000 btus. done 21 in house.
my mother doesn't want to buy ac calisse
mitsubishi 24,000 here. hyperheat
warning! the city's youth aged 30 and under are on the verge of calling us suburban boomers.
i live in a basement, i have natural and free air conditioning. even better than air conditioning 🤓
me with my portable air conditioning making fun of my neighbors a bit poorer than me.
since i bought myself a small comfee on wheel of about 5000-6000 btu not too expensive at canadian-tire it has finally made montreal summers livable. let's say that before that it was cases of not moving a bit with the fan on either at all times
it is rare that i find it hot enough to leave the air conditioning. but since yesterday, no choice. too hot and humid.
tomorrow it will wet and after that i will be able to open the windows. it will be nicer. with the sound of ti zouazeaux.
but we're great outside tonight.
those with air conditioning don't know it.
hello
it wouldn't change much, hush all the time, well hot in the summer.
but when you're stuck with a portable you don't feel so champion. it makes a terrible noise, it's energy, non-optimized and it's damn big in a 1½, but hey it's the only option that worked in my apartment so i shouldn't be complaining.
even a goodman 12000btu mini-split ca fa a job;)
close your windows, close all the lights and let the 3 neighbors with whom you share a wall / ceiling air-condition your apartment a little. word.
geothermal big, it should cost me less than $ 1 to cool all day.
edit: it goes online for $ 0.25, with the windows open, but obviously it doesn't pay for itself the first year.
[deleted]
really beautiful photo but seems to me that close to the same it is dangerous limit
great photo, i hope you had your brown pants on.
your search for moose seems to have been a great success.
you have a good friend who framed the photo well so as not to show your bottom of panties.
[t'as bien callé l'orignal?](
you are braver than me! magnificent beast!
you have balls of steel.
i would be \ * so \ * afraid to be so close to such a huge animal with a less than ideal temperament.
it's so much better to take pictures of animals in the wild than to shoot them 🥰 congratulations on the beautiful shot!
jesus marie and all the children around you in the nursery that you were near !!
have you not found?
is that big the same. beautiful picture!
i do not see it where is the original?
fascinating!
ouan yen are braver than me here
okay but who's the guy with the camera?
what park? i've been looking for some in algonquin park for quite a while, but i mostly see bears.
pardon my french, have me this is a very beautiful photo. where did you get from?
the double photo only the most upper class photographers have a photographer photograph them taking a photograph
my friend from abitibi did not appreciate being photographed so close.
is it in quebec?
wow! beautiful, you can be proud of this photo!
is this his last photo? : p
who found who first !?
it took me a while to understand you were wearing a hat backwards and not some sort of sticker on your scalp 😂 great pic
two originals in search of moose
if i ever got this close to a moose i would need a change of pants.
you're wrong, it's michel louvain.
the photo ception!
nice photo and probably a great adventure for you! glad to see someone who wants to take pictures instead of shooting them.
the moose was camouflaged with its small fir branch! beautiful photo!
have you found them?
what area 🤪
in circles of connoisseurs they call them: the horned horses!
i think you found them
wow fantastic.
jfc
where did you find it? i just found a moose in the saguenay fjords but it took almost 3 days until we found it.
beautiful picture!
worse, have you found any?
she she she!
big boy
he's taking that photo in third person
"hello sir, would you be interested in our new range of moose-tick hunting ?!"
amazing photo and very brave of you.
seen from france, despite the distance it is impressive. bravo to the brave!
you have a big plume ...
ahahaha yes! without hiding it, reddit is the best platform to share your photos!
thanks for the great feedback!
this is indeed a concern that has been noticed to me a few times! frankly he was really quiet, probably old and we had trees too far away to hide! really i had no stress! in addition, before the breeding season, they are generally quiet!
during the season, yes watch out 😅
he has one now.
quality breakdown service
[deleted]
a high quality person!
caa breakdown service: canadian abeille association
op mvp
pit stop ! 🔥
you need more bees on this sub!
nice intention but you should not give honey to bees because of the microorganisms that inhabit it (spores, bacteria, viruses), it can be super dangerous for her and her colony. they must be fed with sugar water (white sugar).
thanks for helping this little bee!
really refreshing all those bee posts lately here ... nice! i too try to make an effort .. my neighbors hate me but bees love my dandelions
well done sir.
it's a hairy bee!
a hero
kudos comrade!
you take care of the smaller and weaker than you, you are a good person! : d
ho wow! thank you for this gesture! i grow sunflowers to help them!
honestly, bees are proof that insects can be cute.
inb4 the worst pictures
i really like bees, when i worked in a small bakery in germany there was plenty of our products (well that we will talk about it again at some point) and sometimes when there was nothing to do i looked at them and i them flattered.
next time give it some sugar water! honey from different beehives can have bad effects on a bee! good job tho, it's better than letting her die!
honey
get away
you get a good job with good pay and you're okay
honey
it's a gas 🎵
you are my role model from now on.
why are we hearing so much about bees this year? before, i had never heard of the don't cut grass movement in may. because of the dandelions.
it cute\^\^
thank you
two bee posts in 24 hours, are you lining up for a bee love fest next week like we did with cats this week?
anyone got any ladybug stuff? every time i find them in my apartment it already seems too late :(
because that's what heroes do
this is the way
during that time there was a coming and going of wasps in recognition to build a nest in my yard ...
i wish it was as peaceful as this, you are lucky
i have several flowering trees i can't wait to see them
would the maneuver also have worked with impure honey?
lmao you buy the product that bees literally killed each other at the job to make it and you take a drop of that to save one ... a real hero ...
you're my kind of human!
go see alvéole (quebec company)! they deliver the beehives to you🐝 we have 2 beehives in our yard on the south shore.
buglife says people should put tired bees on the flowers, where they may be able to find nectar which, unlike the sweet solution or honey, contains the nutrients they need. sugar offers bees no nutrients, and a lack of protein can even cause bees to eat their own eggs in order to continue living.
do not give honey to bees unless it comes from your own healthy hives. american foulbrood spores can be present in honey. feeding honey from an unknown source, like a supermarket or even another beekeeper, can cause infection in beehives. the best is to find a flower with nectar.
big flex of feeding her more honey than she will likely produce in her life
[deleted]
i ran over a bee and threw it in the toilet
we planted a cherry tree and 4 other flowering trees. the cherry tree attracts so many bees that you can expect them several meters from the cherry tree. it's impressive
for this reason, we said to ourselves that we were going to let the lawn grow a little forward.
the neighbor passed his mower on it passively and aggressively to let us know that it was time to do it (it is the 5th time of the year that he mows his own).
we are not cutting the lawn this month 😅
me too, but can you tell yourself that it didn't take any effort?
😂
i don't dare too much. i don't know so much about the sub here, i wonder if i should share or not. i wouldn't want to be out of context or tire people out with bees 🐝. ☺️
i know exactly where the honey i gave her comes from. wildflower honey from an area 10-15 km from the nearest crop field. don't worry about her 😉! then i've been lining up spoons of honey every day for 7 years ✌🏽
dude ... honey is antibacterial. we clearly show the first aid worker and the soldiers to put honey on a wound to protect it and heal it .... tse when we want to steal the fame of others ...
have you seen cute bumble bee butts covered in pollen? 😍 so cuuuute 
this is give and take. 😉 i might be bigger and stronger but without them i probably wouldn't be here! ✌🏽🐝
i hypothesize that the popularity of the bee is proportional to its risk of extinction. i am not 100% sure, but i believe that the new generations are more and more aware of environmental issues. market gardeners are increasingly creative and are looking for viable solutions. young people seem to have a desire to change things. perhaps it is the access to information thanks to the arrival of the internet in recent years.?! but anyway, i just hope that it doesn't pass like a fad or a trip (look at me on instagram i'm planting a tree). in short, i meet lots of young entrepreneurs who are super creative and so inspiring. they are beautiful to see and i feel a real desire to remake the world, to change the model of consumption.
[deleted]
is it really revenu québec that pisses off people who work overtime?
personally, it's the journal de montréal with its "list of the most paid nurses in quebec" that makes me vomit every year.
"a nurse made $ 250,000 this year."
ok, do you understand that she worked like 6 days a week, 16 hours a day to make that salary? what is your point exactly? that nurses don't deserve to make that much money, no matter how hard they work? it's not like nurses can just cross the system and pay themselves big bonuses. she has to work every hour that she gets paid.
tell me about ceos who pay themselves bonuses and deny their employees increases instead. or canadian athletes who take advantage of our sports-study programs and scholarships for young athletes and who move to monaco or the bahamas the second they start to make cash to be sure not to pay a shout of all the services and scholarships they have received. tell me not about a nurse who worked 4,900 hours this year to do the equivalent of what a family doctor does by working 20 hours a week.
it is not false.
it's easier to target those who have small gaps than those who don't respect anything.
[deleted]
it's the same thing with the irs here in the us. because you are honest, it is very easy to assess your additional taxes, which your job already reports to rq.
this is also the same reason the republicans want to decrease the irs investigative budget. if the irs had a sufficient budget, it would be much easier to prosecute corrupt politicians or those who hide their rich in tax havens.
under funding, directive and law in place. revenu quebec are doing what they can. we should elect people who do not have everything to lose by changing the laws.
the best c the world on the bs who work below the table
perfection
i love srgrafo! i got to know him thanks to his rimworld comics.
when we receive a bonus and you have half of it that disappears ...
what i hate most is the jo blow who walk by my job with their brown envelope full of cash and ask if they can pay the taxes if they pay cash. and that's 90% of the time people do in construction, or landscaping. quite certain this envelope has passed under a table at one point ...
op does not seem to understand that his taxes are based on his annual income, whether he has worked overtime or not. the impression that we have that overtime is more imposed comes from the fact that companies withdraw an amount that takes for granted that you make that salary all the time. but the overpayment comes back to you at the end of the year.
like when i owed them $ 700 ft that they froze my bank accounts, you mongolians? your salary spent on my file cost more than what i reimbursed
it's excellent ! people started sharing it on twitter and facebook :)
this is indeed true, i no longer do overtime and i abandoned external clients because it is really not worth the trouble unless i have a small business and have expenses etc.
it's like in france 🇫🇷
thick question for someone who may be familiar with it. if i do ot but choose to use my ac for off time (1.5x). does the bank time used count as ow or normal hours worked?
they tightened the screw on the restaurant industry a few years ago. it's not perfect, but that's what at least.
i wonder what could be done vs the construction industry at large?
🗿
at least i can ask to accumulate my overtime to have more paid vacation.
yup (unfortunately).
they're doing this because they don't have a budget. with more resources, they would look for them or it pays off.
apparently the hairdressers are ridiculously too overseen by rq, c'mon la they esti hairdressers .. given their a bit of lousse.
this is where you come to tell yourself fuck the system.
what does this have to do with overtime. clearly a little lesson on taxation would be welcome.
10/10.
i am learning frwnch but from what i understood i think it is the goverment spending money on less important things.
quebecois meme finally
> it seems like paying less per hour on the individual pay, but it is adjusted when filing your tax return because the pay with overtime is imposed as if it was that pay every time , when we make our declaration the surplus paid is refunded.
yes that i know. i'm just looking at it based on the tax paid over the full year.
but when my first 40 hours i have a net pay of $ 25 / h, and my boss asks me to over-do knowing that each hour of simple over-time that i do will bring me back $ 21 / h net more because of the tax, i am not wrong to say that it pays less. i haven't "misunderstood" my taxes.
when you say that those who say it doesn't pay to overdo it, it's because they don't understand taxes, it's not true. this is because for them to overtake it pays less than their normal job. especially since doing overhead is more demanding because you already have your week in the body, it often requires more energy than normal hours while paying less (net) per hour.
ironically, the few billion in tax evasion that they could potentially recoup, the government machine would burn in a matter of weeks, if not days, in ridiculous spending (as the government knows so well how to do)
the budget of the province increases by billions every year, are things improving? not really. so i doubt that a few billion more recovered in tax havens, added to the 320 billion already spent annually by the machine, would change anything for citizens. it's wishful thinking
spend 40 hours, all in the dark. it's the happy medium
the income tax should be abolished after 40 hours of employment. once there, you've done your part, the rest should go straight to your pockets. this is a way to boost productivity in addition to rewarding those who work hard instead of penalizing them. tsé, a real meritocracy. is there someone who can send my idea to franky boy and the toupette, please?
french moment
> so tell me about the ceos who pay themselves bonuses and deny increases to their employees instead. or canadian athletes who take advantage of our sports-study programs and scholarships for young athletes and who move to monaco or the bahamas the second they start to make cash to be sure not to pay a shout of all the services and scholarships they have received. tell me not about a nurse who worked 4,900 hours this year to do the equivalent of what a family doctor does by working 20 hours a week.
or managers in the health network who make $ 120,000 a year and who fled to florida in the middle of the pandemic.
[
have you read, in the article on villeneuve, that he even applied for a solidarity tax credit ... that's unforgivable from a guy who has millions in the bank.
> ok, do you understand that she worked like 6 days a week, 16 hours a day to make that salary?
and that schedule might not have been his idea either ...
especially since the deductions when you work overtime are super misunderstood. you're not punished, it's just that you're taxed as if you were writing that check every two weeks instead of having done 50 hours a week.
or the list of employees of state companies such as hydro quebec which earns more than 100,000
it's ridiculous, he's been doing it for 10 years every year and he panics every time
100,000 10 years ago is not the same today, there is something called inflation
there is a reason why we call it a trash newspaper lol, the montreal journal / vat / journal de quebec is like the fox news of the states, it is not even considered a credible journalistic source, it is just for to be late.
well, personally, i would like to do extra time, but whatever my collective agreement says, i am not allowed to log extra time. if i have too many jobs for a week, it's time in the bank. or i'm supposed to take my time and leave the plans behind.
yup. it's just easy to look up to someone making an amount that might also seem disproportionate to someone making minimum wage. it doesn't matter if it's deserved or not.
i publish schnoute, to have more clicks, to make more money, to publish more schnoute
jealousy, outrage, it pays off for the media.
hallelujah!
it is a fact about the government penalizes overtime and productivity, by imposing it too much
i stopped doing overtime for this reason, the government was appropriating most of it. fuck them
i call it the "hournal de mourréal", that way we know who we are talking about ...
those who cross have the money to persist in court with rq. it decreases the profit of the recovery. the little ones of this world can't afford it so they pay. no losses.
is it quebec that you didn't understand?
worse from what i understand ... will admit that you open a company in the bahamas. after that a bank account in switzerland. nothing illegal there.
but if the cra wants to know what you are doing, they have to apply to the bahamas. the bahamas must assess the case. even if they respond favorably, after that they have to get the papers out and send them to the cra.
and there the cra finds out that your bank account is in switzerland. so request for information in switzerland. treatment delays. okay that's good. ah, the money comes from a company in delaware ... it can take years to resolve.
meanwhile stéphane works here, has an account with desjardins and just works for ti-jacques construction.
if you're a cubicle warrior in the rcaf and your boss wants you to meet certain performance targets, let's say the decision is simple.
united states united states?
quebecker immigrated to the usa or an american francophile?
seriously it bothers me frankly less than the millionaires who have tax havens
“there is no bad weather, just poorly dressed people. "
[deleted]
looks like red dead redemption ii when you go to the mountains.
did i disagree when i returned from the jonquière campus to the ¾ packet after a poutine from pauline at 2 a.m. at the start of the storm?
winter is great!
it would also be perfect for this sub: r / winterporn!
well glued around a fire, hand in hand with your cousin ...
ok ok i'm a cellar haha.
edit: st'unnnnnneeeee joke. i don't want to hurt parson.
you remind me that i haven't looked out the window for 3 months
and fret. here at mtl the londe condom when its decend below -25. saguenay begins to complain below -40.
it's very beautiful!
is that or correct? thank you
** sounds of snowmobiles in the distance **
confined in town, this is a beautiful wallpaper for the season. thank you!
superb!
really beautiful! +1
one of the snowiest inhabited places in the world
❤️💎
owl and especially cold
i did quebec / jonquière back and forth for the job yesterday. the scenery was good for the 5 hour drive alone sitting in the tank.
do you know what is better than a nice winter day a good poutine from ashton for those who live outside the city of quebec you probably don't know who ashton is but i can say that something is good? .
and french people who fall into the lake 😆
it depends on the context. in a bucolic excursion in the countryside ok. when you are with your young child and bags of groceries and you are waiting for your bus which does not arrive in the brown slosh of gray highway in a storm at -20 ...
okay. it makes you dream less.
an old leather socks
it's not embarrassing to sit down
the annie in this song was my babysitter. i made my youth with mat the peach. ma'am painchaud was my aunt's neighbor. i feel pampered.
especially no adon when you lost your gloves and your toque!
this, but without any irony.
i had first read "la main dans ta cousin" ... i admit having laughed a little!
from memory, it was in the corner of zec martin valin. i am not naïve from the area and i was with the group of hikers from saguenay.
do you have any stats on it, that would interest me!
frette*
câlisse, ein dark en viarge that one !!!
i'm adding it to my cards against humanity deck: p
too soon man we have to wait 20 years. this year we will be able to start the memes on 9/11
the guide was from quebec.
i know a shortcut by the lake ...
adjoye
during a storm especially at -20 there is not really a brown slosh on the other hand. it's too cold for the slosh and it's all mixed up with new snow.
wait for the bus? in saguenay?
but do you know the karine de bagot?
there is no irony. i love winter for real.
i "kink shame" not eh .... haha!
nothing super reliable but i googled this just before going to bed yesterday and i consulted several clickbait-esque pages and then i triangulated it all to form an opinion! "snowiest cities in the world" was my starting point
eh ? did you miss something ??
* the old age intensifies *
as a result...
between 2 uboats?
in montreal it makes sense, but it must be said that the days at -20 are still rare. rarer than in saguenay in any case.
unfortunately no :(
ah cool. there are people here who complain, but living in quebec surprises me.
personally, i love winter even if this year we can't do anything.
as long as it stays in the family, there are no problems.
[deleted]
hahaha, okay, i think this is my take on this favorite meme. very funny!
beautiful. gorgeous.
this is hilarious but as an ontarian growing up in the 90s, poutine was always held up as a great québécoise invention
10/10 you've reached the climax of humor
i love you make me laugh!
no cross-pole game on r / canada
very funny
good game
[deleted]
i like this! keep ‘em coming lad
very strong
ok i laughed * irl *
wawaweewa
bro, you made you funny
ontarians are laughing at you too. all the provinces laugh at the other provinces.
i think you mean "professional hockey team", or "national hockey league [nhl] team", because there is only one national team in the country and that is team canada.
[deleted]
watch cbc's incredible level of condescension of poutine in the 90s: 
solid quebecois.ontarian. noone thinks otherwise.but it is done wrong in ont. a place in ottawa even has different types and one of which is "gastro". trying for gastronomic but......gastro is definitely anything butt.
gage
ever since newfoundland and manitoba voted for meech ... er forget that.
2006.
with the exception of terre-neuve-labardor, they are just being made fun of by everyone.
yes i do not understand it either. there is no quebec national team. and even if there was one, she would have the one from ontario wiped out.
i haven't seen the film in french so i don't know what it would have said, mistake on my part
“poutine goes deep inside quebec’s psyche, evoking it’s simple roots, it’s insecurities and it’s sense of humour.” ils tirent ça d’oû?
in the movie, the guy speaks lousy english instead of his own language because he speaks to the rest of the world. you did the same and it's okay too. it wouldn't be so funny without pocket english.
edit: it wouldn't even make sense anymore, because the quebecer wouldn't express himself as cohen probably does in the dubbed version since the quebecer is supposed to speak french ...
write your interpretation
i have the same opinion. i read the same with the borat accent in my head. in french that would take away a good part of the joke for the reasons you said.
it does not have the same impact. the best we can achieve is the quebecer who speaks english poorly, and even then it's cheap:
"ça this is my voisin"
"there's a bread in my ass"
"i get a national hockey team and he also gets a national hockey team"
"i get a special status and him well he cannot fa'que c'est moé qui win"
i read it like it was radio radio
\ * put on your protective gear before going to read the comments \ *
the comments are, to everyone's surprise, full of quebec bashing.
the more it changes...
the comments are basically english people who know better than us what is good for us and who complain that we are hateful. i even read a comment from a guy who asked an honest question and asked "do the french canadians have a french culture or a canadian culture?" »and i was like« ehhh?!? ". canadian culture ... it's the anglos who stole it from us ahah, we were called "canadians" long before them lol. the guy's question just reminded me how unknown quebec is to the world. and those who know we exist see us as the weird part of canada.
the majority of canadian culture comes from quebec.
*cries in bilingual*
quebecers and the english are natural enemies. like quebecers and ontarians, quebecers and french, quebecers and chinese, quebecers and quebecers. cursed quebecois, they have ruined quebec!
bro are they rejection to base on us as well, just because we decided not to adopt the customs at papa durham?
i really don't understand why one should hate the other or vice versa. makes so much no sense.
what a funny history post, surely the comments will be absolutely okay and totally not hateful towards us
[deleted]
isn't it rather the other way around? i love them me my little anglos! a bit like a cat who wants to know nothing and who scratches you all the time, but you love him the same.
ugh god there are some idiots in that thread…
please don’t project it onto all anglo canadians and anglo quebecois…
i love my franco-canadian friends.
personally, i see the people of the roc as educated americans (i generalize a lot).
forgive my butting in as an uninitiated from south of the border:
should not tuvok’s response here instead be “non.”?
ok damn never mind then, i guess we aren’t friends then
i knew people are going to be speaking french down here
ok so i don't know where half of the comments are coming from. i am english speaking but speak french fairly well. most of my friends are a mix, some speak english well and depending on the day we change the language we speak. i am also very appreciated at work and i love both my french speaking friends and my english speaking friends. some of you are having trouble! don't be a quiz, it tends to solve a lot of problems no matter what language you speak.
ok so i don't know where half of the comments are coming from. i'm anglophone but speak french fairly well. most of my friends are a mix, some speak well in english and depending on the day we switch things up. i'm very appreciated at work as well, and i love both my francophone friends and anglophone friends. some of you have issues, just don't be an asshole that tends to solve a lot of problems regardless of what language you are speaking.
canadians?
i thought quebecois preferred *'canadiens'*, but i'm a saskatchewan bumpkin, i haven't seen a frenchman in years.
[deleted]
naw not a big fan of the east
[deleted]
i forgot to do it.
my eyes are bleeding.
it is the team mentality, one of the greatest weaknesses of the human being. it rots just about every sphere of society because just about everyone is incapable of even the slightest bit of independence of mind.
note that the meme is as stupid as the comments.
the meme itself points to that. i would have inverted the yes and the no naively.
~~ well i read about 100 comments and i did not find one
share the link or fake? ~~
i got into controversial, all the bashung is out there
racists on historymemes? never!
probably because i didn't get to the bottom of the reviews, but the highest (hence highest rated) ones are pretty positive about us in general. quebec bashing was probably downvoted even in the garbage, where it should be.
at least here we are in good company and we love each other.
joke's on them, i'm mixed race and i'm not from quebec
i answered it but indeed, the question was strange coming from a belgian. must know that there is a minimum anyway i can not believe ...
what is canadian culture anyway?
take the tim horton crap out of an english canadian and you only have a regional variation of an american.
if the question was from a guy in ontario or manitoba, i would find that pretty dubious. but seeing as the question is from a guy in europe, i find it easier to understand. like me, i'm not aware of all the differences between the cultures of the provinces in europe. i know a bit about the various countries, but generally not in detail at the provincial level. so i still find it "fair" to ask if the culture here is more like other provinces or that of france. worse in the end, i personally find that we are like a beautiful mixture of the two.
we are indeed strange if we compare ourselves to canada.
"canadian culture" hahahahaha, it's good in esti
except the nanaimo bars, at a pinch.
canada was born in quebec so it is normal.
oh must not say that. anglophones in the maritimes really have their own culture. mainly new scotland and newfoundland. they don't match with the americans or the british. they have a very celtic and german side at the same time. it is special. you have to go to mabou and lunenburg to feel it.
* cry in english *
[deleted]
you forgot "quebecers and quebecers" in your list of natural enemies for the joke to work
bc we fight en masse with the hatred of the chinese haha
you had me during the first period, i had started to write something scathing!
leafs-habs / s.
i also don't understand. i am english-speaking and i would like to become friends with more french-canadians [and improve my level of french].
and alas, the day it will stop the chickens will have teeth
> i really don't understand why one should hate the other or vice versa. makes so much no sense.
when the other on whom you want to impose your laws, and who you want to assimilate by eliminating his language and his culture because you can not bear that the world is different resist, and this for centuries, well it is not a surprise that you hate "the other" ...
i dare believe the granny is just a joke. you can find things you don't like on the other side, but i don't think most quebecers really hate english-canadian people, and vice versa 🤷🏻
[deleted]
cultural delineation, but between individuals that should not count as long as we live on the same edge of the border.
i can't help myself, every time i see a meme in quebec outside of r / quebec it's just a reflex
> thus, a “** reasonable **” person attending mike ward's show would not consider these jokes to “despise” jérémy gabriel. "the contentious remarks exploit, rightly or wrongly, a discomfort in order to entertain, but they do little more than that", concludes the supreme court.
it still shows that jeremy gabriel was not that dying, if the supreme court had time to render a decision
the passage on the role of the human rights tribunal is absolutely noteworthy. if mr. gabriel had genuinely felt disparaged, he could / should have sued for libel. it was not discrimination because of his disability, in the context of the issue. mike laughs and always laughed at everyone. guy a., véro ... everyone goes there. the human rights commission has completely overstepped its mandate.
good! this pursuit was so unnecessary.
chad supreme court
virgin human rights tribunal
i'm happy for him. he talks a little about it with guy nantel in his latest sous listening. guy nantel also has some excellent points on the subject.
i'm still happy that it's a social debate, but i'm even happier that it's judged okay by the supreme court. the debate is rather settled after 10 years of speeches.
humor is humor, whether you find the show funny or not. whether you feel shocked or not.
i am relieved for both mike ward and jeremy, it must not have been easy for both.
on the other hand, it is a very good thing that his mother lost. it was because of her that it all started, it was she who exploited her son and his disabilities to make him a public figure.
good news!
jeremy burning my hand that it would have been the opposite.
brag
to those who find that the supreme court is the vehicle of the slippages of canadian political correctness against quebec values, let us remember that the human rights tribunal (which initially ruled against mike ward) is an institution of the quebec government, and c he supreme court ruled in favor of mike ward's right to speak.
great news, although it was way too close for my taste.
i also want to thank stephen harper, who is the great architect of this victory. of the judges he appointed, 4 of 5 sided with mike ward, two wrote the decision. of the judges appointed by the liberals, 3 of the 4 took the edge of jérémy gabriel, including rosalie abella, who wrote the dissent and who is an anti-democratic and anti-free speech extremist, a radical who fortunately crowns his camp soon because of his age after 17 years of abuse on the supreme court.
let those who claim that the supreme court of canada is not partisan and that the appointment process is not political or partisan take note of this result. it is no coincidence that the vote here largely followed the political affiliation of the government that appointed each judge.
addition
i also want to add [this image] ( comparing majority opinion and dissent, which shows the ideological chasm between the two sides . on the conservative side, intent and context matter, and they use the test of how a reasonable person would approach the situation. on the side of the liberal judges, the intention and the context are completely evacuated, they go so far as to say that these arguments "have no legal basis"! only the impact matters. if mike ward's action has a negative impact from jeremy gabriel's point of view, then mike ward would be guilty of discrimination, regardless of his intentions and the context of his action.
for those who know how to weave links in the news, the reasoning of the liberal judges is the same which underlies the thesis of "systemic racism". a system is racist if it produces disparities, regardless of whether or not there is an intention to produce them, regardless of whether the socioeconomic context can explain these disparities, as soon as a system produces disparities, there is "systemic racism", only the impact, only the result counts.
yes!
yes!
good news! finally!
[this image] ( superimposing majority decision and dissent, illustrates the whole ideological chasm between the conservative justices who supported ward and the liberal judges who supported the human rights tribunal.
the majority: intention and context matter when it comes to determining whether a wrong has been committed.
dissent: intent and context don't matter, only impact matters.
we see in the dissent approach the same logic that underlies the discourse of systemic racism, a system is racist if it produces unequal results between racial groups, regardless of the intent of the rules and norms of the system and regardless of the socio-economic context that could potentially explain part of these disparities.
as trudeau is in power, as stephen harper's judges retire, the dissenting point of view will easily become a majority on the supreme court. so, it's a great victory, but one that heralds dark days in the future.
maybe we'll see a swing of the pendulum towards common sense. this week, two ontarian women won a false accusation of racism that caused them harm. ([ 4.3( -social-media-posts-defamation-decision-1.6216884))
based.
this is good news.
[deleted]
you have to be a little cave to be on jeremy's side here.
a victory for freedom of expression!
good.
a little stupid question, but is ward considering a counter prosecution?
good choice.
congratulations to mike ward!
excellent news. mike must be on cloud nine today.
a victory for the freedom charter bravo
good.
now let's hold the human rights tribunal activists to account for their lack of judgment all these years.
the best thing that could have happened is that jemery gabriel contacted mike ward directly without legalizing it, they could even have been on stage together. imagine 2 minutes jérémy arriving on the stage of the show of ward to send him out for a walk, everyone would have been cramped stiff, jérémy would have been popular like no other and that would have shed light on the cause. but no, the turn is negative.
the best thing ward could do now would be to donate to a foundation that does research on teachers collins (is that right? i'll go from memory), in the amount of the fine that was requested.
victoire !
i'm completely out of the loop, can someone give me a recap?
thankfully, reason prevailed. we don’t want people fined over jokes.
a few years ago, i was intrigued by this whole story. i had the reflex to find an excerpt from ward's show to be sure.
i was horrified.
i have experienced bullying. i had challenges because of my disability. there is no way i could defend such words.
that said, being disabled doesn't mean that all bad behavior, like greed, is allowed.
getting money is balm, getting professional help is the real cure.
good, now we should abolish the court of human rights .... damn court of banana republic without any standards!
i didn't say my last word
oh! well, we can psychologically abuse high profile children now.
it looks like everyone was just waiting for his.
still a little intense to read a judge saying that being publicly insulted in front of all of quebec cannot lead to more discrimination and personal attacks in your private life, whereas this is generally the first consequence. haha, the law is a damn farce, that's the humor here above all.
still, he's a mediocre comedian.
judges often make mistakes
full not popular but i don't care. laughing at a specific child when you're a celebrity is hellish and it should be illegal.
that's good but can mike ward next time laugh at the world from above with some power instead of a cripple that we're crying out?
amen to that
wow!
very good news!
those who despise gabriel don't do it because of the joke, but because of the whole legal process that followed.
as they said, the purpose of the first instance is to judge discrimination, not defamation. jérémie gabriel's mother would probably have won if she had sued for libel.
this is really great, i hope mike ward's expenses are fully covered by the public.
all this circus was still a good thing. it is clear that the "line" of acceptability has to move and this decision of the court helps to know where it is. also mike ward is still said that he was close to the line in tabarnak.
what we don't want is for mards like stephen crowder to feel comfortable spreading anti-minority memes with impunity.
just yesterday i saw this clip of george carlin about comedians who "punch down" and i think he puts it on the sore spot.
the days of [evelyn beatrice hall] ( and her "i don't agree with what you're saying, but i will fight to the end for that you can say it ”or naive freedom of expression definitely died in the 2010s with the dream of the libertine techno of the 80s. harmful memes exist and their spread must be stopped. freedom of expression has more limits than simple defamation to cry out in a theater, contrary to what we previously believed. it's sad but that's how it is.
it's easy in criss to be an actor in support of the status quo and frankly i do not see the value to be told that one is good worse late by a sycophantic "actor". (is that the translation of sycophant? never heard that word in my life wtf)
so glad mike ward was told, "you can do it, but you're a bit of a shit for doing it"
because yes, little jérémie is surely just spotlight because he was sick out of sympathy but not out of merit of being a good singer. but mike ward yelling "it's not fair he's not even good" (or believing in meritocratic utopia) and thinking he's against the little guy in "the emperor is naked" ... yeh ok well done mike ward you can go sit down.
you're right to put reasonable in bold because there's no reasonable human with a hint of good taste who can appreciate mike ward's pre-teen humor. his humor is downright schoolyard bully joke ...
i don't know if your comment is there being funny or you are just ignorant. he has a syndrome that causes partial deafness and distorts his face. the fact that he's dying has nothing to do with it. his condition is really sad.
i second! i seem to have heard jeremy say in an interview that he had never seen the skit before the human rights tribunal contacted him. it is quite concerning that they have tried themselves the same and that they have been successful until this morning.
they literally took a skit and said, it's not right and it's causing harm to that person. without the initial opinion of the person in question.
it's like straight white men / women who will be outraged that a joke is racist / homophobic as soon as it makes a difference. when afterwards you go to see a person you know in the targeted group of people and they are like: "no it's bin chill".
worse, you realize that you have just typed the 20min monologue that your asshole for nothing.
it gives me "karen" vibes
but the worst part is that he doesn't even laugh at his handicap. he doesn't care how his mother exploits him.
that's what surprises me when you see that the decision was split 5-4, i would have expected almost unanimity only on that basis. on the other hand i haven't seen the arguments presented to the court, so maybe this is not an argument that has come out that much?
the human rights tribunal is the worst idea to come out of the liberals in a long time.
if the laws are not up to par, the laws must be changed. not to give a parallel court that does not really apply the law.
it was because of his disability but it wasn't really discrimination. he targeted her because he was a public figure and his weakness was his popularity based mainly on sympathy for the disabled.
mike ward talks about public figures and the riffs against them are just their public flaw.
he is creaking close to the line, but he has not crossed it.
[deleted]
it must have been 20 years since i ate it. i still remember exactly how it tastes, and your new creations just make me wanna go buy some at the grocery store
missing more than the earrings in the shape of small maple taffy cones! frankly, great work!
nice! do you smell lerable lol
really adorable! are you going to put them on your etsy?
i love these! you really do a great job :)
wow! it has the consumable area.
awww it is therefore well beautiful and well done !! i just want to take a bite with a good glass of milk!
i just bought a pair of them! i will proudly wear them on the streets of vancouver :)
i can almost taste the cookies now.
my grandmother worked in the factory when my mom was a young child, she was lucky enough to be able to bring back whole boxes of broken pieces! i would have liked to live these moments there because being only 18 years old, these cookies were part of my childhood! a nice big glass of milk with a full row of these cookies, nothing better!
oh wow! really adorable! are they available for sale? i will have a sugar shack theme in my class in april!
where can we buy it?
it's a gift bin noïce
really original and cute !!! 🍁 💕
can you make poutine earrings, but not with pendants? i would like it to have some, but with * studs * (i don't know how to translate it into french!). basically, with the poutine stuck to the ear rather than hanging down.
lucky that i have some in my cupboard here, my torrieuse. it made me want it instantly. i would have been mad if i had to go to the grocery store just for that, your fault. there are convincing.
tbrnk now i want boxes of cookies
i don't know you but i like you haha and all your tiny creations :)
i just ordered you a pair they are soooo sick! 😁
very cool!
my 4 year old daughter takes her with a glass of milk before the evening sleep.
how do you manage not to eat them ...
oh my.god! trop mimi!
pay attention to your ears, someone will bite in there! xd
well i will have to go back to your etsy site, beautiful
are you the one who made them?
too nice !!!
again, super beautiful. small suggestion, key rings whose end is well anchored in the sculpture for those who do not wear earrings.
good work. , :))))
you tripped.
what material did you do that with? polymer clay, clay ..?
fuck. there i feel like eating maple leaf cookies.
ahh nostalgia! i ate too many of these maple cookies when i was little.
hey! i sent you a private message :)
i'm just waiting for the shocking revelation that ultimately it's your hands that are giant.
(good job!)
makes whippets !!!
i have no sound. is it worth it with the sound?
i went to see your other posts. it's really cool. you are really good!
when i was little i used to do a face my mom called my maple cookie face ... i just did it when she asked me if i wanted one. well, i have the same face when i check it hahaha
bravo!
oh shit it's been like 15 years since i ate those cookies lol.
it's cool what you do! how do you make them? you should make video making of for youtube
bought ❤️
i would like to buy! where can i find it? and how much does it cost?
they are superb! for christmas, i asked my boyfriend for timbits earrings. i had them and they are beautiful! i love them, thank you very much for your great work!
wow. asteur i'm hungry
insane! really talented.
my mom trip on her earring jar
i have always hated maple leaf cookies.
besides, i don't really like maple syrup.
does that make me a bad quebecer?
[deleted]
more than alain!
ok, i came here to make this comment! i arrive with the milk.
128 day challenge
not even a repost it's a screenshot to another post 😂
even the un does not recommend what is being done. completely forbidding a population to see people outside the job for 6 months, that is not done. worse, the curfew is downright tyranism.
i agree with many of the measures, but here they are exaggerating.
when does the curfew last until again? feb 8?
how long is the curfew?
your first mistake was believing/trusting the government
if i remember correctly, we are not allowed to end up with a black card (+4 or reverse)
the world can whine however they want, but this is the first real significant drop in new daily cases since this summer. so there is something starting to work in this combination of the start of vaccination, more rigorous confinement (without the excuse of the holiday season when too many people have given themselves “small freedoms”) and curfew. so i understand that we can't wait to have more freedom given this positive change, but now is not the time to let go too quickly until the ventilators and hospital beds are unclogged (and to have some peace of mind). family and friends working in hospitals on the verge of burnout, that there is not an osti who comes to tell me that the hospitals are empty and that it is not worse than usual).
so we are heading in the right direction, but the government must continue to be conservative in its reopening because the average human being, in particular the westerner, is quite stupid and egocentric. if they give a little lousse, too many people think they can almost completely deconfin, to the dismay of traders and citizens who have sacrificed from the start.
only slaves and prisoners in this sub
forget that. we're going to be stuck with this all year round.
like "u, no!"
is there any official information on the reopening of non-essential businesses? i'm trying to "mind" myself whether or not i'm going to go back to work after february 8th ... thank you!
awesome! we are heading towards an australian scenario - almost no more covid anywhere in canada!
good! we're heading for an australia type scenario with almost no cases with this approach!
oh my god, it has the mark of the centrist !
[deleted]
worse, you can't even choose the color!
note: at uno pig-dog all draw cards are stackable (+2, +4). so everyone has in hand the possibility of increasing the total freelance. as in this confinement, the cabochons have the full possibility of adding weeks in total.
i don't understand people waiting for government announcements to say whether the "measures" are extended or not. it's a pandemic, stay at home and wait for it to pass, it's simple. no need for a press briefing to be told what to do. it's been a long time since i stopped watching them.
ah, this topic reminds me why i come here, to see morons and feel better. thank you!
so it's like a double negation. it's an oc.
they have been exaggerating for a long time
normally, but they plan to continue it until march i believe.
we'll see on the 7th of feb if legault decides to follow the plan, double down and extend, or change direction wildly. 
^(who's bitter? i'm not bitter!)
until december 70th.
go grab your cigar pack at bed late pi tayeul
the last card at the bottom left looks yellow
this is by no means in the official rules.
it's not the same that it works. first, there is generally a decline in cases worldwide, so whether this is to be attributed completely to legault's measurements is uncertain at best. second, if you think that staying restrictive in the long run will help the situation, you don't understand human psychology.
you can't ask a population not to see the people they love for six months, to beat them up constantly, and not to expect that eventually to go wrong. if legault does not end up giving up his measures a little (considered excessive by the un, moreover), people will just end up giving in and doing what they want in secret.
it's like teenagers, dude. if you try too hard to control them they'll just get better at hiding. yes, you can be very restrictive for a while, but not for the long term. especially if the world sees that cases are dropping but nothing is reopening.
the best way to get people to listen more is to do this. so no.
you do smart things. you take away the stupid curfew. you allow meetings outside in small groups. you reopen businesses and restaurants (with the measurements, if you look at the statistics, there was almost no contagion in these places. it's just a fact.)
seasonal effect
f  
f  
and
t  
s  
a  
i  
s  
o
n  
n  
i  
and
r
indeed, we are well conditioned by the welfare state
slaves or prisoners? explain lol
no, nothing official yet. but the government tends to hear the week before just to make announcements. apart from canceling christmas, all other announcements are made quite late even for extensions.
ha. keep dreaming, the border is more porous than ever. repeated cyclic failed lockdowns will be the foreseeable future until everyone is vaccinated and even then this will become a yearly thing just like the flu.
i especially hope to see it go in court. the charter only makes it possible to go against it if the measure is justifiable. however, there is no valid justification for curfews other than a sort of belief that private gatherings after 8 p.m. are an important source of cases, for which there is no evidence.
"trying measurements to see what happens" and this without evidence in the data or scientific evidence is surely not a good justification.
did you already take no steps after 8 p.m.? you have to follow to know the measurements, i wouldn't want to get fined $ 1000 for walking on the wrong side of the street or because i said hello to someone who doesn't live at the same address than me.
may-
[deleted]
hell yeah! ** la sainte-paix! ** * intensifying flute *
to celebrate the first anniversary (march 13) inside!
i'm sorry for telling you an inconvenient truth but the government doesn't care about you.
j'te posivote, you said exactly everything i think.
so obviously, you didn't really try to understand what i was trying to express. apart from the first confinement, quebecers (generalization of course, many were careful, but it has always been very divided) never applied what the government recommended adequately, always having excuses or “i exceed the recommended limit, but just a little wrong it's okay ”, even when the recommendations were reasonable. faque the argument that the world will end up caring about it does not pass, because there has always been (too much) that cares about it. it was passing this summer, but with the return to school and the weather getting colder, this laxity made the october and holiday confinement a big failure (lol black friday).
so you wanna talk about psychology? put yourself in the shoes of the government trying to control an unprecedented situation with stubborn people who think they know better how it works. they had no choice but to tighten the screw for real, we had exceeded 3000 cases, it was triple this summer. are the measurements exaggerated? probably, i'm not contradicting you on that. have the cases gone down? yes and so much the better if this is the case worldwide too. so all the more reason to be cautious and to remain conservative in the reopening to allow the health system to unclog a little.
people still use the terms “freedoms” and “sanity” too much as crutches and bogus excuses to justify disobedient behavior to the detriment of people in real pain. (big generalization, but you know very well that using it has all the sauces lessens its value).
so we have to wonder if we want to continue to think that we know better how it works than the authorities like our friends the americans or the french who have completely escaped it or if we want to compare ourselves to places like new zealand which were lucky not to have as much traffic as in america, but which go into full lockdown as soon as there is a single case.
finally, you can downvote me if you think i am not contributing to the conversation, but also take the time to question yourself if you want to be part of the solution or or contribute to the problem and towards what we want to strive as a society. it's not easy for anyone, but we must all do our part and be reasonable in deconfinement.
daddy government will save me if i just comply hard enough. just keep printing more money and ruining lives, surely nothing will come from it!
what annoys me is that the stores and all of them still weren't carrying the super spreaders. basically, if they wanted to stop the propogation, the schools would never have reopened
seriously, how are people who have peaked at pku supposed to do it?
it wouldn't surprise me if they reopen the stores and maintain the curfew. they would thus have the advantage of helping the economy while giving the impression of going strong against the virus.
so let's see, why hairdressing salons are not part of the essential service? just have the limited to quick cuts.
everyone needs a haircut and a haircut, i don't think most of the world gets the outfit it takes anyway.
ah yes pqe it pays so much to kill the world who pays taxes worse taxes. excellent government strategy 🤣🤣🤣
you know the un and who do not recommend an extended lockdown, right? or a curfew? then you will come back to me for the authorities. legault doesn't even understand what systemic racism is, we're not going to start relying on it as if he were an authority figure in the matter.
do you think it's just 'not easy'? of course everyone has to do their part and be reasonable. but preventing people from having social contact for six months without giving them the slightest slack is not reasonable and no, you can't ask that of everyone.
you also know that there is a good chance that even if the containment measures had been completely respected, we would still have had practically as many cases? please, i am not a conspirator, but must use our common sense. all over the world it exploded. legault is just banging on the `` damn not end who do not respect the rules '' to have a scapegoat, it is less scary than having to tell the population that there are things that we do not control.
so was lockdown a good idea? absolutely, because otherwise we would have had more cases. but was the containment done in a smart way? no. refusal to close schools because # mental health of young people, but we are closing the restaurants where there were hardly any cases. tse, it would be easy not to just hit the quebecers while being reasonable.
allow external meetings. open businesses where there was almost no contagion. but no, legault is acting as my uncle because "if he gives a little everyone will exaggerate". results? it makes everyone's suffering worse, depression, suicides, and ... yes, disobedience. because when you give people nothing for six months, they get sick of it.
and btw no there is not too much who cares about it. the major part of the population respects the instructions. it is mandatory in shops, in grocery stores, in workplaces. stop with your "it's the fault of the people". dude, common. no. it's just a fucking pandemic and it spreads mainly in the workplace as well as in schools. that's just it according to the statistics.
the more legault is going to hit the population as if they were all badass, the more the population will take the edge. this is group psychology. he exaggerates, the population will exaggerate. sociology 101.
don't you find it weird that things go down after the world has bought their christmas presents and the holidays are over? isn't that kind of predictable?
you are not replying to the right person, my big one
[deleted]
to neglect education is to encourage the formation of future conspirators.
but seriously, there is no impact since the opening of the schools.
"a good insect is a dead insect!"
childhood memory.
and when we have had the second dose, we can say that we are pic-pic!
yehs. with the context of the movie, this might not be the best image to express what you mean lol
cries in ontarian. quesser that i make icite screams.
i just re-listened to this film last week!
excellent sci-fi classic!
they're doing their part. are you?
the 24th for me, after that i will finally have the network in the woods!
with the current dating system, it's not uncommon for someone to get stung on their date to get stung!
chui disappointed. i have my first dose but i still don't have the 5g ☹️😢 / s
2nd dose tonight. at last !
with your service, you will obtain your citizenship and your right to vote. if you survive.
[deleted]
20 mai gang ✌
i'm going to be 18 on june 17! i will finally be able to book an appointment!
how i feel coming back from my morning immunization appointment:
[
congratulations citizen!
i have my appointment yesterday. these next monday !!
moe too!
wow that's 100% me, anyway, can't wait to get back to normal
yeah, it feels good not to be part of the problem!
okok, high quality meme, take my posivote and go!
i took my first dose on monday
1st dose on may 29th and my boyfriend is right now! i have never been so eager to get vaccinated lol
i had my second dose today 🥰 i don't know if it's like that everywhere but the people who work in the vaccination clinics welcome you almost as if you were a member of the family, it's cool .
i'm live at the vaccination center, its rolls its rolls
i just got vaccinated. it is like an immense weight which has been lifted from my shoulders.
the reference, especially when you know the message of the film, is quite delicious!
very well found, on the other hand i would have possibly not dared on this sub :)
cringe
and one more euthanized quebecer, one!
edit: guys, no humor ...
like someone who has been brainwashed participating in the propaganda campaign of a fascist government?
and no, i'm not saying that's what a vaccinated person is. i say that's what happens in the movie, so really badly chosen.
[deleted]
the scene in the shower was a special moment in my childhood.
good the debate on the estis de craquias which starts again
i am aware of the theme, but hey it was too much not to make a meme
though...
i came running to post this, but i got caught up in your reply. take my sti upvote! 💜
haha that's it i thought. klendathu, it was the fear of covidiots about vaccines 🙄😂
for a woman or for the money?
what is delaying vaccination in ontario? on a pro-rata basis, you get as many vaccines as we don't?
just forgot that there were consequences.
chu not able with that one. i've tried to watch it a few times, but it doesn't work for me. i know a lot of people who like him a lot though.
i read the book several years after seeing the movie and found it much better. more philosophy and less action. it's weird because i usually like war movies and science fiction in particular.
would you like to know more?
[deleted]
even my 4g reception has not improved!
nice. only at the end of august for me the 2nd
with your vaccine you will obtain your vaccine citizenship and your right to barbecue with friends this summer.
it made the man i am today! * pat his sore arm *
if you really want it despite your age group, ask pharmacies or vaccination centers, if there are doses left at the end of the day, they give them instead of throwing them away.
may 20 me too. stab me bby. 💉💦👅
madrid prevented them from making a pee stop, hat.
100% confirmed graduate of the school of life.
i live in the schlag, while jogging went to see the people who were at the demonstration, and i can tell you that the people you imagine going to this demonstration were exactly those who were there:
- dubious nationalists
- des pro trump
- clones of lucie laurier post hippie jacinthe renée version
- of the world with white suits biohazard style.
- not too educated people who have fallen into the rabbit hole of youtube.
it was not glorious
dude it wasn't a burn it was a first degree murder
my brother and mother went and were happy about the postponement of the vaccines.
my heart bleeds
i did not understand "secondary 3". 11th grade in canada?
and who is it that rented the buses to them? they had to know that the sanitary measures were not going to be respected. they are just as responsible as the bozos who travel inside these buses.
by the way, is "pierre tremblay" the most generic name in the province of quebec? with the same name he is sure not to get googled.
what's going on at the olympic stadium? did i miss something?
damn, i didn't think i was going to laugh. nice.
as pérusse would say "héééé, it smells like the brain here"
edit: i'm talking about conspis not about you guys, you're awesome guys!
lmao, the emoticon of a man full of affection with red cheeks and hearts as if he was going to spend a nice weekend at the chalet with his girlfriend to relax. nope. he is in a convoy of buses full of orthos which are leaving manifested against the receipts.
this is what happens when there's a summer without a film of tabarnac diesel wine
fucking maxime bernier; fucking danger to society. i wouldn't really mind if a micrometeorite or a hyper-focused gamma ray passed edge to edge of his head.
- dad, mom, what did you do to help during the 2019-21 pandemic?
- we encouraged the spread of the virus and block access to the vaccine.
...
it is so sad that doubt and questioning have been taken hostage by these people.
now you can't rationally question without being associated with the foil bozos.
burn? more like murder
what if the bus took them back to the multipurpose so that they could pass their ethics course?
fortunately there are many who have much higher education and are found among these people.
mmmm the smell of cooked bacon.
how would these people react if an infected and disturbed person went to the demonstration and started screaming loudly that they have the covid and were coughing in the face of the world? would they be afraid of that person or would they give him a hug and find it funny? this is a legit question i ask. it intrigues me whether it's just a forehead ...
hahahaha damn !
but at the same time. it takes a lot of people to demonstrate! i understand that it may not be for the best reasons but it is certainly not me who is going to protest. they have the right to do so. they have the right to disagree. so demonstrate.
bin no, after he got screeched outside the bus, he was going to school in turbo: his father was going to carry him.
this summer they were blocking the pierre laporte bridge and i am working at the hospital so imagine my situation, i even know who to listen to or what to listen seriously to the human being it is a collection of junk pounding in the bottom of the compost bin .
i’m confused
it'll take a nurse for that burn ... oh wait.
it's beautiful gang, keep it up! give your rights and freedoms to your dear govermum and wait at home alone in fear that they will decide that you have the right to see your family or go to work. do not look at what is happening in other countries, just take into account what tva tells you and do not question papa legault and his gang, they know what is best for you.
well, you shouldn't put everyone in the same basket. i am an academic and i find their main demand (removal of the curfew) not wacky. there is no more crisis, the hospitals are not overflowing, few people are dying. no reason to maintain emergency measures such as a curfew if the situation is not critical.
the government's main argument "prevention is better than cure" does not touch me and is only a slippery slope which allows it to exercise total and authoritarian control of an already very docile population.
recommendation of social distancing and wearing of the mask a little more okay, but please be patient with our schedule and the places we decide to frequent. what we are currently experiencing in quebec is no longer a crisis.
are we talking about the demo, one of the demands of which was to reopen schools and colleges?
bof elitist humor
wow that's my evening!
seriously, those who put this in their dating profile, i thank them for saving me the trouble of asking if i would be interested!
the qanon school surely, life i do not think too much.
moer chu graduated from the school of life. make your recharge
going to a demonstration against sanitary measures with a follow hasmat is like a paradox.
nice summary! thank you!
manifestation of what / for what? i'm not too much news lol
quick! call the ambulance!
> my brother and my mother
we see this world on tv and we don't ask ourselves too many questions about how the relatives of these individuals live with it but it should not be obvious when it strikes close to the same. good luck.
ouch.
uncool:(
9th
there is kindergarten, then 1st to 6th year in primary, followed by secondary 1 to 5. then it is cegep, 2 or 3 years depending on the program (2 years general programs, 3 years techniques), then the 'university.
seriously i hope the company gets picked up!
yeah i didn't understand what was going on so i googled his name to find out who it was and i was like ... why the internet is going after a re / max broker all of a sudden?
jean tremblay without doubts, or john shaker when it comes to being cool
i would say "martin tremblay".
i know a very well educated and ultra friendly pierre tremblay! i was a little scared at the time when i saw the post.
it's funny to imagine that he has a double life in the '' woke gang '' because the pierre i'm talking about is far from standing in crowded buses in times of pandemic!
demonstration of a few thousand wireworms today at the stadium against the measures and "compulsory vaccine" (on a sign in the news), and which stopped the vaccination activities taking place at the stadium. what to be very proud of his neighbor.
i'm curious, what happened to you to be so badly taken that you had to pay yourself this?
watch the meter go up for two hours lol
i am surprised that a driver has agreed to do it!
did you give him an extra $ 2 in tips?
so a round trip is $ 1000? it's more expensive than a return plane haha.
for others wondering, new york / plattsburgh costs $ 900.
people suggesting $ 25 kijiji-style ridesharing are hilarious considering it was for the job.
i have already done la malbaie - valcartier, i remember how much it cost, but it was more than $ 250. i was like 14 years old. me pi mon chumé had gone to the valcartier holiday village alone by taxi, without telling anyone, we had no lift pi or a cent to come back. finally, it was my godfather who came to pick us up from val-belair in the evening. the next day, my father made 280km back and forth to pick us up, was there in a tabarnak (with reasons). i will remember this day all my life 😂 despite that we still had a lot of fun
let me know next time. i do it half price and a happy ending.
i hope it's for the job and not you paying ...
it reminds me of the transport of inter-hospital samples, a kind of more specialized urgent analyzes, which are done in rare hospitals. we sometimes receive or send samples by taxi, and the montreal-quebec trip is not bad what it costs.
you're a taxi driver and you put this on for fun to see how much, right? right ??
thank you for this little useful info that i will keep preciously :)!
ayoye !! reminds me of a time in 2012, i took the cab from edmonton to jasper and it was about $ 650 ... greyhound paid.
next time you can negotiate with the driver. not soon to accept but if taurrais offered like $ 200-250 would surely have to accept.
communauto, enterprise, uhaul ... it's going to save you money
unless you do like 200k a year
"..... and a nice $ 4.50 to spoil you! good evening!"
i have already done montreal quebec in a buick regal '74. it had cost $ 150 of gas ... a deal compared to that ...
should have taken the plane at this price lol
calisse, take the big train.
esti i have my trip!
the orlean express couldn't make the trip for $ 50-60? unless you wanted to be with other people
there is always the bus or the train
it reminds me of an episode of conan o'brien who had one of his employees take a taxi from new york to toronto. the cost was over $ 900 i think ... and it's been several years.
for $ 300 i would have done it hahaha
he has to come back too. you should have taken a limo from the airport if paid by the company.
train or passenger bus?
take the bus? 3r-qc is like $ 50
how far did you go?
i hope who hasn't blasted their flat radio all along
joke's on him! good luck to your driver in finding someone for the reverse run!
context in english so i can appreciate :) sorry i'm bad at french-canadien ;)
why by taxi? wtf!
tbnk o.0
it's still half the price of apple's booth
you call dispatch, they give you a fixed price, like $ 300. otherwise it's $ 350 with uber. (pierre elliott at chateau frontenac)
the train is not worse too ...
one less that leaves him a $ 4.50 tip
next time rent yourself a screeching uhaul. it is on it is cheaper.
you know you could have asked for a price? entk in sherbrooke we have some and i am pomal on you would have paid less.
yikes.
did he have to stop for gas? lol
does the night rate for taxis exist in quebec?
your post ended up on the petitpetitgamin site! and they spoke to paul arcand about it this morning. you are officially a veudette.
carpooling? train? bus? wtf taxi c the premiere
between which cities ??? mtl and dubai ???!
uber?
sweet baby jesus! where have you gone? the artic circle?
ps pardon the english please. i don't know any french expressions.
aeroprt montreal-quebec c'est 400$ et 50 minutes, just saying
express friend c'est 20$
why not go with amigo express
quebec embodied by harrison ford? i'm en masse correct aek that
i always find it funny when we have a federal holiday because the anglos at my job ask me "are you celebrating this?" worse the face they make when i tell them that we are changing the name to make it more quebecois.
🖖
long live quebec?
with us we call it the multifeast.
canada not celebrating dollard?
quebec sounds like a separatist.
the only thing i know about these two holidays is that it is a public holiday!
since the queen invites me every year i no longer celebrate the feast of the patriots.
yesterday, (23 may) was in quebec an official holyday, the day of the british queen  ( well alive in the hearts of quebec anglophones )and ,at the same time, he day of dollar des ormeaux, who is an hero for us, french canadians. obviouly, on the other hand, most anglophones of quebec consider that holiday as being for queen elizabeth. an exemple of cultural dichotomy, but with no harm for citizens.
[deleted]
[deleted]
🤣🤣🤣🤣
[removed]
solo's blaster goes brrrrrrrr
what other party we change the name? the moving party?
as far as i know, statutory holidays are part of quebec labor laws. there is nothing federal there!
long live the free quebec! we will have our tabarnak country! the nordiks will return to quebec!
multifeast, one-holiday :(
dollard's party has been around for a long time and not among the english it's queen victoria's party.
i think there is not much difference between aristocrats.
we tried to turn in the country
same
in germany maybe lol
[removed]
han shot first
apart from st-jean i can't find any other than this one.
there are holidays that are pan-canadian and others are not. worse there are pan-canadian holidays that do not have the same name in quebec.
the fete des patriots dates from the beginning of 2000. before it was the feast of the queen. just because quebec changes the name it makes it no less a holiday that comes from the federal base.
fak is it fair for french canadian federalists? ;)
i know that's why it's kinda funny
lmao the fuckers tried to assimilate us for two centuries but somehow we’re the nazis
you guys are so full of shit
***m a c l u n k e y***
st-jean is not a party with another name in the rest of canada? no? it is right here that it is an official party.
in quebec it is the feast of the patriots. elsewhere in canada it is victoria day. the english-speaking quebecers celebrate the feast of the patriots, in theory. moreover, several english quebecers helped us in this war.
canada day! they don't have a public holiday on june 24 but usually have another day that we don't have. i am talking about "compulsory" holidays.
canada day is just another holiday completely on july 1, but in quebec we use it to move
yes, but we were talking about festivals that exist elsewhere in canada and in quebec that do not have the same name, no different festivals.
i was trying to find an example where an englishman would be surprised if we had a festival different from theirs and apart from the patriots' day and maybe st. john's day, there aren't that many.
it's family day! most other provinces have it and we don't.
we should start a petition, i wish i had one more holiday.
esti, it's so cave it's hilarious
hahaha wow, this is excellent!
holy fuck the memories.
always so good this bo1
short and simple, but effective ahahaha
not long enough the video 😂😂
now i want a legault saga that does some let's play.
u / savevideo
i need the ray gun esti!
when will the twitch channel be?
i laughed well!
this was golden. 
now we need a deep fake with legault and a streamer lolllll
omd i die
okay its funny
who is the guy in this video? i don't know him, i live under a rock. :)
u / xbsd
[deleted]
magical
sa me tue xd
sick
oh boy the memory of this game
i laughed really hard in an online course thank you my friend
the third wave has started ... - double points
why is it so short?
a little disappointed, i expected legault to have the big backlit kit with an led strip in the background.
loll is very good as video legault who game ... there should be a twich
oh my favorite map
lego of the dead
i want his youtube xd channel
worry about you not being a medic with a healthrower.
u / savevideo
when politics does not make enough money.
have already made it to 23 on my own !!!! with sodas and the sweeper hahaha
u / savevideo
i will cramp every time
hotels for covidians to avoid in montreal:
* [baymont by wyndham montreal airport] ( ( online booking available)
* [best western montréal aéroport-airport hotel] ( (online reservation, use code h9c)
* [comfort inn dorval] ( (online reservation available, in english only)
* [comfort inn pointe-claire] ( (online reservation available, in english only )
* [crowne plaza montreal airport] ( available only)
* [days inn by wyndham montreal airport conference center] ( (online reservation available, in english only)
* doubletree by hilton montreal airport
* [embassy suites by hilton montreal airport] ( (online reservation available, in english only)
* [hampton inn and suites by hilton] ( (online reservation available, in english only)
* [holiday inn express and suites montreal airport] ( (online reservation available)
* [marriott montreal airport terminal hotel] ( (online reservation available)
* [marriott courtyard airport montreal] ( (online reservation available)
* [marriott residence inn airport montreal] ( (online reservation available)
* [ramada plaza hotel] ( (online reservation available)
* novotel montreal airport
* [quality inn & suites pe trudeau airport] ( (online reservation available)
why does this game sound like a casino? made by ea?
that's exactly what i thought haha!
i wanted to write the same comment ... fuck man it was the good old days
asti that i am old sacrament, i have memories of cod1 on pc .... :(
what is the game?
its remains one of the best
with geneviève guilbault on a gaming chair and with a bird's eye view of her cleavage and popup tips and subscriptions with carnival trumpets.
###[view link](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
hah thanks my boyfriend i was going to do that
the streamer fran6_leg0
it's a video game released in 2010, in a survival mode where waves of zombies arrive one after the other. and we just entered wave 3.
[
trudeau
###[view link](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
###[view link](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
yeah and the graphics look really old after 10 years of not playing it
it's super funny because we say "we are worried about an authoritarian drift", people answer, "well come on, you are exaggerating, it's not a dictatorship."
and like, who's going overboard here? i just said i was worried. i didn't say, "i'm totally against it." i didn't say "françois legault is mussolini."
i said "i'm worried about the precedent this might set; i'm afraid that we will normalize having to prove your identity everywhere, all the time."
i am not anti-vax. i had my two doses, i wholeheartedly encourage everyone to do the same, it's really the best weapon we have against the virus.
the 'vaccine passport' (by the way, ark, what a disgusting adjective, 'vaccine') stresses me out. it stresses me out to see people jump in there with both feet, i feel like we haven't considered the possible ramifications, and i don't like it. i'm not a libertarian, i'm not a fan of eric duhaime. but yes, that worries me. we have the right to be worried. we have the right to want to keep an eye on what this government is doing, to be vigilant, and to insist that accounts be held.
a system like that smacks of massive data collection. who will this data belong to? what are they going to do with it? it will take a lot of infrastructure - it is clearly a private company that will have the contract, barring an unsuspected miracle ... we can trust him, this company? are we going to know that she doesn't sell the details of our whereabouts to other companies with potentially more sinister designs?
if there are any restrictions on private gatherings again there is no way i will abide by them, being double vaccinated.
does anyone know if end parameters of the vaccination passport have been established?
we talk but a vaccination coverage of 100% of the population is unrealistic, and specialists keep hammering that "covid will now be part of our reality".
are we caught in an infinite hygrade sausage feedback loop?
honestly, i seriously wonder what it will take to formalize the return to normal if the population vaccinated at 80% is still not enough. after the passport, what will it be if there are still cases? (by the way, i am absolutely not anti-vaccine)
[deleted]
what frightens me is that all the debates concerning the passport revolve around the vaccine. i am not happy with the idea that there is a system in place that requires you to undergo a medical procedure chosen by the government in order to be able to be part of the normal activities of society.
i'm worried especially because the argument of many is: i'm tired i just want it to be over, otherwise i would be against it. ouch ... not only are promises constantly broken and never come true, but in addition we want to exchange a permanent system for one of these false promises. next level
go get vaccinated, if you want. otherwise, please stay home if you're sick period.
toe the glasses, shut up!
</guerre de tuques>
suggest neutral points on the internet, kossé that? the internet has turned binary for a few years, it's either one extreme or the other, and none in the other 98 percentiles.
edit: / s by the way. shouldn't have to say it, but suddenly ...
i feel like creaking my camp in texas
i have been there from the start!
i know one who is a conspirator and more and more "it seems" that he is right!
it is indeed possible to exist there.
on the other hand, you should make an extremely clear list of what you consider to be part of the right bubble in your image.
to see the quantity of "all these are containing that are from the anti-your school of life!" that i see about the compulsory vaccine, i think you're talking into a vacuum. people love orthodoxy no matter what they say about their intellectual independence.
just a little thought. tell me what you think of it.
the debate on the vaccination passport seems most of the time to revolve around the vaccination obligation or the possible problems of mass surveillance. additionally, i believe that there is another rather problematic facet with the establishment of a vaccination passport. such a measure could potentially reduce the ability of individuals to challenge the actions of certain large pharmaceutical companies in the event of abuses, giving them de facto almost total impunity. let me explain :
under normal circumstances, if a company acts in a questionable way, or even simply against a person's beliefs, that same person may decide to no longer do business with the company by simply not purchasing its products. , or by no longer attending his establishment (s). the individual theoretically possesses a certain power towards companies which resides in his personal capacity simply not to do business with private institutions whose behavior he considers ethically questionable. this is, among other things, one of the reasons why monopolies are controversial and that cartels are theoretically illegal, particularly in essential sectors, because they deprive people of their capacity to refuse their services, despite the possibility of abuses.
if the government puts in place measures that substantially reduce the person's ability to avail themselves of this power that they can potentially exercise over the big pharmaceutical companies - by making the taking of the vaccine compulsory or by withdrawing rights from those who are 'abstain from vaccination - the result is the following: citizens are unable to avail themselves of their right to refuse the products of the big pharmaceutical companies, at the same time depriving them of their ability to be able to challenge them in the event of abuse. individuals would become wholly dependent on the goodwill of the government to protect them in the event of controversy, thus leaving them totally bereft at the individual level.
for example, a company owner sells vaccines to governments which oblige them to be consumed. as vaccines are compulsory, the need to make them effective diminishes as they no longer need to be proven to the public. they will have huge success no matter what.
i am not saying here that this is inevitably what happens in the pharmaceutical world. but i believe we are opening the door to this kind of dynamic that would potentially deprive individuals of their ability to challenge if a bone were to arise. in addition, i believe it would be good to keep in mind that pharmaceutical companies are not necessarily known for their impeccable reputation. these are multinationals which, despite their desire to rectify the situation, do so first and foremost for the money and not with people's health as their number one priority. the proof: none of them are would be embroiled in this story if it had been a loss.
sorry for the length. i wanted to know your opinion on the matter.
here! 👋
firstly they say that the vaccines will bring back the normal. now the non-vaccinated continues the pandemic, passport and mandatory vaccines, and continues to wear the masks. what's next ??? we are losing our rights, these dangerous people are all regulated by the government.
impossible.
we set the garbage cans on fire.
without being a conspirator. must say it.
i think your circles are too far apart.
should look more like the olympics
i avoid getting into all these pros and cons debates - (add whatever you want here), but i like the wisdom of this comment. everything is not binary ...
conspiratorial
if i trust the arrow does that mean outside the two circles?
the very nature of power is to consolidate and expand. let’s never forget that.
thanks for posting. it calms my thoughts
funny, the arrow is pointing exactly where i am.
what freaks me out the most here is that people ridicule people against the health passport who are worried about the precedent created by using as an argument: - you already give a lot of information to mega-corporations, that changes what more than a health passport ?!
and don't even realize the irony of what they write ...
probably that in 5 to 10 years, when there will be a new liberticidal measure, they will be virtuous by using as a concrete argument: - that changes what! you already give all your private information to companies, alexa / google home listens to what you say and you scan medical evidence in businesses, no problem adding x as a measure!
give that person a cookie, they'll solve a big social problem in lots of countries!
[deleted]
already posted a few weeks ago it doesn't seem.
as a canadian i have failed to understand this
for the moment i do not worry at all with the "authoritarian drift" because the measures put in place do not bring anything back to the government. they do not make the political capital to piss off the world for sure! likewise, there is no financial gain in prevention measures. in fact the government is losing tax revenue by restricting access to businesses and events.
so if the measures are of no use to the government, there is a very good chance that they will be put in place for our good. i know we're not used to this, but in this case i tend to believe them.
except that there has not and never been an authoritarian drift in the history of quebec.
anyone who insinuates that you live in a dictatorship is completely confused and does not understand what a dictatorship is.
it is rather rare and besides, most refuse to think rationally.
think about it, would you rather force people to get vaccinated to save lives, or let other people literally kill others because they refuse to believe scientists?
there's a really simple and free solution that hurts 2 days max so that the vaccine passport is not a problem ... but no, it's too scary :(
the problem is, the majority of people who are worried about an authoritarian drift would do anything to make trump the king of the world.
you're right but by current standards you would be considered a conspirator
one of the most balanced and sane things i have read here.
but it takes more than a paragraph to read: c-
/ s of course let's see
but what a brilliant comment, i didn't think i would read that on reddit. you reflect my way of thinking perfectly.
every time someone takes away a right or a freedom, there is always a risk that it will not come back.
rome was a "democracy" until julius caesar used the civil war and its popularity as a pretext to proclaim himself dictator for life. the republic will never live again and the empire will last for 4 centuries.
i am not saying that we are living the same situation at all, just that this vaccination passport, with no planned end date, it is possible that in 5 years we will still live with it, or not ...
unfortunately modern politics don't work like that.
there is no room for gray areas. you are with or against them.
i have been called a conspirator from the start because i doubted the 2 weeks to flatten the curve. you've been proven correct all the time but with each new silliness you're back in the ranks of the conspiratorial.
at the slightest thought out of the ordinary, at the slightest questioning, you're a pariah. it's really tense as a political climate because it's strictly used to silence any dissent.
but i do not believe that it is the majority of the population which is also extremist, the majority of people are quite skeptical and are located in the gray zone, but the media universe manages strictly to create 2 camps; you're in the good guys or the bad guys.
another great example is 5g; if you dared to mention any doubts about that (ie like paul héroux the professor at mcgill university) you are an uninformed conspirator or whatever. i have a bachelor of information technology engineering and at university we have often talked about studies on the harmful effects of wireless technologies such as sleep disorders or other health disorders (the reason why technicians are in protective gear). i explicitly studied this. but i am not so sure that i am sure; what i learned most of all in college is to be humble enough to accept that i don't know everything, and that the only way to find out the truth is to question everything.
i have never taken a pro or con position, i just mentioned that it is possible that there are risks and that there is absolutely no reason to push technology so fast other than an economic incentive ( hence the reason that the industry is opposed to any dissent).
but questioning and public opinion is not very lucrative, especially when it comes to projects involving several million. so we force public opinion with obvious ridiculous campaigns; if you do not accept 100% that the industry is moving forward so quickly, you are a collaborator of those who burn towers.
the best example; my 18-year-old nephew for whom the government can do no wrong, when i mention this at the table once to my father who has worked in this for a long time, he takes us for cellars by mentioning to us "the chip in the vaccines increases the signal of 5g ". and he thinks he's smart when he tells me that, because according to him, thanks to facebook, he's one of the good guys. he's totally fallen for it, but he's too gullible to account for that too.
an old proverb from seneca; the rooster is king over his manure.
chalice.
even though i have my two doses, i am explicitly against the vaccination passport because as long as i have the people suffered enough. your successful variant osti from india arrived here after more than a year of a global pandemic, so let me doubt the government is handling this adequately.
just make everything open pi if we all die well we will die. but to date your end of the world has not manifested itself, despite your public scarecrow which is the few people who categorically refuse to be vaccinated.
i agree 100% with what you are saying. for my part, i am doubly vaccinated, and totally for the vaccination passport. i believe this is necessary to keep businesses and restaurants open this winter.
on the other hand, like you, i am worried about its consequences. it is possible to be for the implementation of something while being worried about its execution.
for me, it's not so much that a private company manages and collects this data. after all, we are already giving much more to google, facebook and others.
no, what bothers me is that what was impossible yesterday will become completely normal tomorrow, with the potential authoritarian drifts that could exploit this.
laws are all products of their times and can therefore be "turned around" when the political wind changes.
it is easy to imagine that a future government a little more focused on the extremes, using the "covid" laws to ensure a little tighter control over the population.
i have no doubt that the legault government is tempted to do it, i strongly owe you that the following governments are too. but who knows what will be in 20 years, 50 years? the law, it will always be there, and will be exploitable.
the population will be used to identifying themselves at the entrance to shops, when traveling, etc.
in short, i have been vaccinated twice, i wear my mask and i encourage everyone to do the same, nevertheless, i find that these future control systems carry significant and not insignificant risks.
if you have a facebook, reddit, google, netflix, amazon, cell phone, credit card, metro card, canadian tire etc ... massive data collection and geolocation shouldn't scare you. to be afraid of a health pass in this context is to be put into perspective, isn't it?
i'm sorry i don't have virtual gifts to give you for your text.
but thanks for writing it!
except just where do we get worried and when do we have to protest before it's too late?
> i'm afraid that we will normalize having to prove our identity everywhere, all the time. "
well we do it at the dep, at the saq, at the sqdc, at the saaq.
> a system like that smacks of massive data collection.
because the government, apple, google, reddit and all the other websites you visit don't already.
what freaks me out the most here is that people ridicule people against the health passport who are worried about the precedent created using as an argument:
- you already give a lot of information to mega-corporations, what more does a health passport make ?!
and don't even realize the irony of what they write ...
probably that in 5 to 10 years, when there will be a new liberticidal measure, they will be virtuous by using as a concrete argument:
- what's the difference ! you already give all your private information to companies, alexa / google home listens to what you say and you scan medical evidence in businesses, no problem adding x as a measure!
> a system like that smacks of massive data collection.
now that's funny.
do you have a cell phone? :)
conspiratorial!
quickly, get rid of your cell, your cards and other items that can track you. also go live in the woods while you can still do it, before we catch you to "control" you / s
if you are currently traveling outside of canada, you must show proof of double vaccination both to exit and to return. these controls are therefore already in place and the information on people vaccinated is already known to the government.
should we be worried about a drift, perhaps, but probably at the time when the highway code or the judicial system was put in place there were concerns too, and now these are necessary elements for the rights and security of all.
legault said they did not want to re-enter confinement and that is why they want to put the vaccine passport.
and overtime
i would even say "go to the stanley cup final by winning a game in montreal on st. john's day"
it must have been crazy in montreal with the canadian winning, the pride festival, the st-jean with a full moon freaking. i live in gatineau and i heard the montreal bass as if there was a party at the neighbor's house !!!
* cause mayhem and vandalize police tanks to spoil everyone's moment in front of the bell center *
[face](
go habs go
i'm a bit new to hockey (nhl playoffs, at least). can someone explain to me how the final works? is it only one match? first to four?
nice 😂
win the cup on july 1.
justin trudeau who says he is proud of canadians.
thanos if we win the cup
[deleted]
it was the party everywhere in hochelag entoucas.
fierté montréal (pride) is from august 9 to 15.
i took a tear gas canister in the face for example it was less cool i was just walking.
in these times of live broadcast on all social networks, we could not see the face of the thick so that we can applaud them properly?
like the rest, first at 4 w.
it's still a four of seven like in previous rounds.
for you"**
they were real fools (the guys who screwed up and also the police). i was in front of madison's and i saw a can drop straight in front of me. it was not fun even with a mask on the face. during the next hours the police threw cans like idiots in the middle of the streets between cars.
wasn't it because of the smoke gases that the tank was flipped?
a single police tank is really not that bad.
thank you!
thank you!
it's still 1 too many but yes, it's after the gas
poor police tank, he had a family: '(
so what you're telling me is that before the police gassed the world, there was no vandalism? big surprise here.
he was one day from retirement.
me who knows that putin is russian: **i am four parrallel universes aheads of you**
well the war of independence is not going to be so glorious that i thought rip
everyone here has a lot to be proud of quebec nationalism, and i bet there aren't many who don't buy their cane sauce and their frozen fries.
we know that it is quebecois when there are at least 3 french errors in the image. / s (but in fact not)
to spring! 😂
it's like saying pizza is not italian, but napoliten.
who cares where does the serious poutine come from ?? in the past, we used to think about which region of quebec invented it, now its whining because it's the canadian national dish. we should be proud of it but its the area of the cultural appropriation asteur .. 'facepalm'
if that's only our pride, no wonder people make us laugh.
a highly bigoted, supremacist, hateful, falsely canadian, separatist comic that takes away meaning from a united canada.
burslak it's brewed here
what did i miss?
kkomarade
is caramel harris vp of usa in each loonyverse?
[removed]
alright guys are you ready for the next question posed in the next referendum?
"quebec or canadian poutine?"
plaine d'abraham tripping through time
but purely quebec cheese!
i make my poutine entirely home, it just has the spices that don't come from it
if you haven't raised the beef that has become your poutine sauce, you're not a true quebecer.
scratch as i speak.
bin for years he treated us as a colonist because it was not good for our health, because it was proof that we were ignorant. now, a cut of a fast-food chain we give them a taste, yon find that it was really good, and to hear them there is nothing more "canadian". by continuing to bash quebecers because we eat them. if it's not cultural appropriation, i didn't understand the concept.
if the roc likes poutine, no cloudiness, that means they have taste buds.
but at the very least who stops denigrating us because we eat it worse than doing it as if it was john smith from toronto who invented it.
ultimately, the dish of french-canadians ... like the national anthem, written by a french-canadian, set to music by a french-canadian ...
... and we can talk about maple syrup, and the sugar maple leaf, replaced by the norwegian maple on all our emblems, because there are many more norwegian maples in the roc that sugar maples ...
stune joke man
where did you read that this is * only * quebec culture?
worse, there is no one who laughs at quebec culture, except a few quebec federalists who secretly dream of being american-canadian.
ah ok you're sarcastic
new expression for you:
> burn your gas even ...
antman: what is it that happened here?
for people who want to know what he said: he said something like "be quiet 13yo socially rejected with no friends nobody cares about you :)"
vladimir putin (putin in french) is the president of russia. no relation to the dish.
rule 2, no insults. banned 28 days.
[removed]
french canadian coined term on an irish version if a potato dish, in quebec. controversy of origin, but term "poutine" was common for "put in". fries with whatever poutine". squeeky cheese curds as a standard i believe came from 2 origins....drummondville and longueil. i have only ever found 2 references on this however. "speak quebec" for anglophones introduced me and i tried to fact check it. i also discovered that tetes-carree and bloke refer to the removal of wood from floor joists in quebec for taller english clients. enlever un bloque les tetes carrees passer. friend even has the carpet stapled in the corners where my square noggin passes on rue st jean.
quebec is canadian my dear friend, so i'd say both.
fun fact: most store-bought poutine sauces are currently vegetarian.
eat and eat "they talk the same thing my boyfriend"
it is true that before being a national pride, it was a subject of contempt.
this!
well you're teaching me something, i stand corrected. i had never heard of poutine bashing, thanks for the info. i understand why i'm made down vote lol i thought to exhager by saying 'cultural appropriation' but in the end it's not bad.
i am a little discouraged that the war between franco and anglo still exists but its change of the covid and the same are comic.
ah, humor.
where did you read that i wrote that this is only quebec culture?
not sure he's sarcastic. he calls us "kwebac" in his comments, and calls the separatists bigots ... well!
you're right. i forgot: violent.
[removed]
so is nova scotia, but does poutine come from there?
anglo quebecer.....even i would be offended by this turd. identity is a chosen thing. not inherited on a birth certificate. if someone wants to be anti-diversity like you, go back to texas where you came from. you sound about the opposite of canada with crap like that.
if it's the same why would there be an error then?
my tag on the post was not clear enough ...
> if that's only our pride
the. did i misunderstand what you meant?
i think it overreact a tad so lol
what is joël lebigot doing to him?
never seen anything as true as this image
without the "squeaky" cheese, it just doesn't work. this is the easy way to determine the quality.
shout out a mes talents ms paint!
if you think this is the worst we have in toronto, i've got some bad news for you. check out the no.6 on this blog, we are far in tbnk de la pout's de la belle province!
it's canadian, we all make it the same
there, i think of a girl from little life. steak wheat potato and she fucks it again, again, again, etc.
fak like we scream fries cheese in grains ben squik squik in tbk and brown sauce. it is useless. fuck it, ontario fucke all as usual. long a lost cause.
poutine brampton
ark .. of course no poutine sauce just a big spoonful of gravy ...
unpopular opinion: put a little grated cheese with the squick squick cheese (both), it adds a little something very mioum
trââno !!
while we're at it, the blues jays and raptors are as much our teams as the maple leafs. stop trying to say otherwise.
ontario: everyone obliterates that canada and just ontario. not all of them exist.
we are perfect, and the center of the universe. is we can speak french too. very good. very good french.
.... i am very windy. i want to learn french, french programs here are very bad. :(
i have the impression that in 10 years, we will hear things like "does poutine come from quebec or ontario, here is the debate tonight ..."
arkkkkk
you don't even have to go all the way to toronto to see a failed poutine ... the other day i tried the one at lasalle drive-in, it was grated esti cheese !!!
post to r/canada t'es pas game.
hmmm two lwa bhonne pooteen
truly. but we must say that in quebec we are good for the fuck up this famous poutine, many establishments that have repelled me in the metropolitan area of montreal, poutine is deplorable, so simple and yet so complicated!
i live in winnipeg. my wife and i are from saguenay and know the real poutine. once while we were picking strawberries in a pick-your-own field in manitoba, we bought a poutine in a small potato shack. instant regret !! the fries were acceptable but the sauce and cheese was a scandal. they served us a brown sauce mixed with cold onion soup filled with small mottons and grilled white industrial cheddar cheese. it was an insult to all the poutines in the world.
we took the poutine and put it in the only ethically acceptable place. oil changes.
the real poutine is found in quebec. nowhere else.
in high school (in ontario) we sold poutine with grated cheese and i was looking for whoever squealed a slap but the nice lady said to me: "i come from trois-rivière, i hate to sell you that"
😂
an abomination!
what is this flag 😂😂
ah that's wrong!
i think that internationally, quebec (or french canada ...) is recognized for poutine. fortunately...
it's funny, no one is screaming at cultural appropriation there.
canadian poutine looks illegal. hence they do not put cheese curds. hence the cheese is so grainy
i can eat both lol
“disco fries”
sorry, who's that second flag? i've never seen (i'm not canadian)
as someone who has lived in both quebec and ontario i can confirm that quebec poutine is better. ontarians don't understand it properly. the cheese ratio is always too low and they use crap ass light gravies. 
but i mean that's the ontario way, find something cool, then reduce it to its bare minimum components to create higher profits. they'll charge you an extra 2 bucks for "extra cheese" when that extra cheese is just the bare minimum amount of cheese that would be socially acceptable in quebec.
do you think it's bad in ontario? try a poutine in alberta or british columbia. it's sad. very sad.
i live in ontario, and i don't know if it's an ontario thing, but they always bathe poutine in gravy and never put in enough cheese.
it's like a "nailed it". (google this ... very funny)
imagine reducing the quebecois identity to a mobile canteen dish. seriously, we don't care.
i lived in exile in toronto for several years. beyond coming back to see family and friends, eating a real poutine in montreal was always on my vacation bucketlist!
well, their food is not always tasty and there is a lot of variety .. but quebec specialties - you can eat them in quebec.
if the roc wants to make fries-sauce-grated cheese and call that poutine, good to them. it's just going to reinforce the myth that real poutine actually comes from here.
there are sparkling wines that we like to call champagne to finish, but there is only one real champagne.
a normal poutine, you know it tastes good when you taste it.
this poutine there, you know it's bad when you see it.
i prefer it half melted, so it’s gooey on the outside and chewy on the inside. 
the curds in nb and the gaspé area tend to be good at that, but the boivin curds in saguenay stay solid and squeaky no matter how hot i make the gravy.
regional preference i suppose.
that squeaky cheese can screw it up. it tastes like ass. grated cheese is so much better in good quantities. once you have more of the "squeaky" cheese, all that's left is soft, soggy fries in the sauce. not only that, but the cheese is always either cold or at room temperature, it ruins the poutine, crunches.
when i want to eat poutine, i want to eat it hot, that means i don't want that stupid cheese to cool the sauce.
\*\*\*\*
that "squeaky" cheese can fuck right off. it tastes like ass. shredded cheese is so much better for poutine when used in good quantity. once that "squeaky" cheese runs out, you're left with limp, soggy fries in gravy. not only that, that cheese is either always cold or room temperature, which ruins the poutine, goddamn.
when i want to eat poutine, i want to eat it hot, which means i don't want that stupid cheese to cool down my gravy and what not.
i like your addition of the canadian louse-teen at the end.
"shout out" please. i wouldn't want to see you hurt yourself while handling a gun.
i love your quebec flag with maple leaves! 🤙
you should have put a little trysomic features on the guy in the last square lol
ark not the fucking rainbow poutine.
numbers 1 to 5 ... ok ... nothing too offensive ...
arrive at number 6:
> \ [voice of brad spitfire \] no! pity!
ciborium.
update: the order of the list has since changed, it is in 8th place at the time of this writing. either way, you won't be able to miss it.
looks like a poutine who went to a * rave * with ghb and e and wakes up at night on the floor of an apartment that you don't know.
can we just take a second to agree that regardless of how anyone feels about the other poutine mentioned, that unicorn poutine looks absolutely disgusting.
man i hate it! how could you have done this to me! ??
quick, i need a / r / eyebleach session
ugh. i want to downvote you just for that. crisse, what a unicorn poutine ?? there was a couple who looked no worse ... but no, just no.
i discovered hell, they serve rainbow poutine.
it was a nice day
wonderful photo but guys i'm not sure we'll get out of 2020 alive ...
ch ☁️☁️ ate ☁️☁️☁️ u ☁️☁️☁️☁️ f ☁️☁️ ron ☁️☁️☁️ t ☁️ e ☁️☁️☁️☁️ nac
chateau frontenac 7 ° c.
7% visible too!
it's always beautiful the mist on the plains too! :)
disappointing when you are a tourist passing through the city for just one day!
oh yeah, there aren't any this year!
december 25, too sad 😞
yeah ... was the weirdest christmas, i can't wait to see the heat record that we (surely) broke.
majority château frontenac
it gave a really cool visual to a lot of places! going down duplessis to see only fog with the champigny college coming out in the distance, it was special.
silent hill, qc
there is global warming!
how many degrees for it to steam the same?
it's like the city of silent hill
tse when quebec on december 25 looks more like los angeles than quebec
do you have snow in qc or it's as miserable as in mtl
this photo is scrambled way, does anyone have a high quality version?
edit: it was a joke, because of the fog ...
wow
yeah i admit
15 ° c 110% humidity ... what did you expect?
yes but damn that the temperature does not connect to the river! tonight it's an hour in a t-shirt, the other with my hoodie and my big coat.
👽 for the 30?
an a is missing
*chateu*
in 2015 it was 15 degrees on the 24th and we had 13 degrees in 1964 on the 25th. so it should be close to the record according to the official temperature taken in weather stations. it's 2 days that come to break all the beautiful slide i had built for my daughter, we are going to bring out the shovels!
it's a shame that the photos of my little iphone don't do justice to the scenery i had in front of me. in the midday corner it was impressive to see the big clouds of mist over the city and the bridge.
climate change is not an invention of the north pole to make their country bigger.
[deleted]
i took this photo myself while i was working yesterday. my great talents as a photographer coupled with the movement of the boat and the temperature gave a photo a little blurred on my phone unfortunately ...
nothing, i just wanted to share photos of the city that i found beautiful in the mist.
15 degrees? oh yes. thank you because i was wondering after seeing the first photo with the castle.
it was humine in estie
don't be mean to the americans, no fault of their own ... different
mars attacks! style
it's hidden behind the clouds
one week? to this extend? poor tabarouette you. me, since i have a month of christmas vacation at cegep, we said with my friends that we would do urban snowboarding in montreal when there is snow, but now we don't even know it will be when the first real one lined: /
hmm ... on a blue boat?
i'd be curious to see the first photo transplanted into r / nocontextpics ...
the constituents of humus have nothing to do with this.
[deleted]
yes, on ocean group tow boats.
i wanted to post it but there was already someone who had done it ... it was not a long crime.
yeah rip. the jet stream is driven mad
my 4 and a half in jonquière for 2 years cost me $ 460 / month ...
now that i have moved to "town" ... i have to live in a 6 and a half with roommates to pay a little less than $ 700 a month ...
$ 500 in montreal ... same fight as $ 75 per week to do a family grocery store!
what is the subsidy for deputies for their official housing in quebec? lol
edit is 15,700 per year. if it's 5-600 per month in montreal, 400 per month should be more than enough for them in quebec, i would like to see the allowance decrease to 4800
[deleted]
you can hardly get a shared room at this price these days.
fun to see how out of touch some of our politicians are.
i think it's good that he said that.
astheure if we ask to make it reality it will be harder to say that it is an unreasonable goal.
i would like apartments below $ 1000, especially $ 500-600.
the caqueux!
big gang of disconnected mononcs!
what responsiveness, take this high-vote!
rip jessica walters, who brilliantly played the exact same role in arrested development and archer (deceased last month)
he doesn't give a damn about montreal, no one votes for him in montreal.
yeah if you get four in a 3 1/2 you are going to pay $ 500 each. failure and smatte the complainers
bin yes 0 1/2
criss of swelling this first shabby
i visited a 2 1/2 that smelled weird in montreal north for $ 550 2 years ago. there must be others like that!
maybe we could remember not to elect a multimillionaire as pm next time around. seems like they are often disconnected.
honestly, i don't know how i'm going to rent an apartment when i go to university in montreal. if it's a minimum of $ 700 per month in reality it would mean that 75% of what i earn now would go just for the rent. i just work 15 hours a week, but even working 25 hours a week it would be almost half enough to have a place to live. its makes no sense and its been a long time since house prices should have been much more regulated.
he must also think that it is possible to feed a family of 4 for $ 75 a week.
okay, his quotes are not that wrong, he is not claiming that this is the typical price nor that it is nice accommodation. when we speak of starting price, seems to me that implies a badly screwed 2½, which must not be so far from reality.
> “it depends on the size of the accommodation. i would say that it can maybe start at $ 500 or $ 600 per month, then quite quickly go up to $ 1000 per month ”
..
> yes, there are rents at 600, 1000 $, especially ** when there are two of us to share a rent **.
surely to try to recover, but there it seems that he is talking about the price paid by each tenant and not the total price of the rent.
i mean he's not wrong, just that you don't wanna live there
ye millionaire! the dude is completely out of touch with the real people pi people!
"let them eat cake"
a classic
i think i missed a part. earlier i read:
> françois legault estimates that the price of an apartment for rent in montreal starts at "$ 500,600 per month", but that it "can quickly rise to $ 1000".
it seems rigorously correct to me. did he say anything else?
he was talking about us $ 500
i paid $ 550 in 2013 for a 1 1/2 in av. dr penfield. the apartment was $ 1,100. we rent to two. my roommate slept in the living room and i in the bedroom.
that a person succeeds in making a lot of money does not mean that he is able to manage a province.
👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏👏
faque who must be brought in to the next elections so that my rent drops or stabilizes at least?
where in montreal? in the fucking ghetto with cotton walls then the mentally ill as neighbors ?! sign me the fuck up pleeezz 😒
[  
there are 1 1/2 close to 600, let's say you don't have a lot of stuff to put away: - \\
it shows how out of touch some politicians are!
the insult is to speak about your own situation (he is a millionaire) or rather to use his children (child of a millionaires) to illustrate the "correctness" of his remarks.
it reminds me of the statement from the minister of housing last week:
** "i have four kids, and then i go through this, i have broker friends and building inspector friends, so i'm a little bit well placed, so to speak, luckily." **
so the caq gets advice from their family, and friends, bosses, (when they are not ministers themselves) .. do you ever manage with verifiable facts, or read the newspaper?
what a bunch of ti-coune!
and the grocery store at $ 75 too😁
strong meme game!
rip jessica walter
we are talking about an owner, he does not care about tenants.
let's see damn it, it's scary to know that he has the welfare of people in his hands if he is so disconnected from reality.
legault, today: "i've made a huge mistake ..."
yes, some person with too much wardrobe sublets it for less than $ 500
edit: spelling
he quickly added $ 1000 and roommate in his sentence so that owners who vote for him can continue to increase their rents without the slightest bad social conscience. do you have a problem that does not fit into your political niche? don't recognize it, it doesn't exist anymore!
once again, the caq, which is disconnected from the reality of cities ... as with daycare centers. there is no shortage of space and if not in the private sector it comes back at the same price! yes yes legault, come see the beautiful private daycare bde mon coin at $ 70 + / day. it's a second mortgage even after the subsidies ...
a 3 1/2 in hull cost me $ 840 per month 7 years ago.
for 500 you didn't even have a bachelor lol
before that i was paying 640 for a 4 1/2 (2009 to 2013), and i was aware that it was well below the market price ... besides, i left because the block changed owner and the "renovations" have started ...
reminds me of bill gates at the ellen degeneres show in 2018 who had no idea what the grocery items were ... completely disconnected dude. the difference is, despite his fortune, bill gates doesn't have the power to make a difference.
lego bragged about keeping their two boys, 24 and 27, at home ... they're going to get blasted!
this is his version of chocolates at 35 cents for connoisseurs
tired of hearing whining!
however, as i live alone and i am not rich and i could not afford to buy a bungalow, i have a duplex from the 40s in the suburbs with a tenant.
worse, i will have to finish paying my legal fees in 2030!
well, in a region far from everything, it costs me $ 650 / month for a mortgage, two-story house, land, the neighbour's two cats included. it's crazy the differences between regions for the same quebec! i could never afford to live in montreal, and yet my boyfriend and i have good salaries. i do not understand how you manage to arrive! i have palpitations for you.
when we talk about the housing crisis and answer you about housing for rent and not for sale, it really shows you that you are disconnected.
(not that the apartments for rent are cheap; but let's say that for 2 months i have only heard about the exorbitant price of houses for sale)
the gait is disconnected !!!
is there a housing crisis in the constituencies that voted for the caq?
i lived in côte st. luc, a nice little studio for $ 400 ... in 2002.
i mean, if you supplement your diet with your roommates (cockroaches, mice, rats, bedbugs), it must be possible not a $ 75 grocery store?
if i'm not mistaken there were some pretty massive air defenses ready to protect the factory.
[we still produce 😎] (
fun fact:  
theoretically, arvida is a district of jonquière, which is a city borough of saguenay. but if you ask someone from arvida where he lives, he will never answer jonquière or saguenay. never!
funny fact: the original idea was that the streets were shaped to write arvida from the sky.
but when the war hit they thought that a big lighted sign marked "important strategic target here" was not the idea of the century, so they canceled that plan.
but they had already started! the letter a was well advanced, and the r was started. we can still see them today.
[i've placed a dot on the map for you under the a if you want to take a look.] (
for those interested, a little more info here:
are you all alone to be slightly insulted that arvida is said to be a village?
eille is my meme !! lol i was so surprised he got them so many upvotes lol
arvida beach!
epic!! i didn't know too cool
this is where i was born! (i think anyway - i lived the first three years on genest street, is that in arvida?)
i never really went back there, i spent two years in the area, unfortunately daffodil in general made me feel a little depressed: /
asti we are strong !! long live the quabec cawliss
arvida also has a bridge made entirely of aluminum, the first in the world. it was built in 1949 when aluminum was still a fairly specialized and expensive metal that very few people knew how to work with - the construction of the bridge was a big flex on the part of arvida and quebec.
i went to see him as part of a class while i was studying engineering. it really is something special to see.
jonquière = rural quebec?
repoteaux
a small village in canada /s
dogecoin !!!!!!  🚀down vote meh connards
it was surely protected, but surely not by anti-aircraft batteries. i don't think there was a nazi bomber capable of blowing this up from germany
my grandfather was a pointer for a bofors!
bagotville base, still active.
it depends. if i talk to a local, i get there specific. but otherwise i say saguenay, because i don't expect anyone to know what the different sectors of the city are.
otherwise, arvida is a sector of jonquière, not a district!
the same goes for me when i am chatting with someone abroad.
-where do you come from?
-near montreal, quebec. (the village in question does not matter to someone from abroad).
-where is it?
-north america, just north of the united states.
note: never mention canada. this country does not exist.
so it's really cool that as funny fact
do you have a source for that i find it really interesting
is it a floating megalopolis of 400 million inhabitants?
is it the heart of the saguenay empire?
it's nothing, according to wikipedia in english, it's not a village, it's a "settlement".
[
like arvidien (and op of this meme) i can't find any other words to describe arvida lol
what was the population of arvida in 1945?
y is excellent!
posted in which sub originally?
the coast in s bruh
edit: btw it looks like at the top of the s hill there was a drinking water tank owned by alcan and they must have plugged it because too many people were going to bathe in it. doesn't someone from reddit sometimes have a picture of said tank? i spent my childhood in the area and the only memory i have of it is a summer spent seeing trucks come and carry dirt.
at the time it was a full municipality, i think
wrong sub weirdo
there was air defense.
they even installed a cannon recently in a park to commemorate it.
the bagotville military base is there largely because of the aluminum production plants in saguenay lac-st-jean.
indeed, despite the fact that the nazis were the first to develop long-range jets and missiles, they never succeeded in creating an aircraft capable of reaching the american continent. there have been tests like the amerikabomber and the v3 but they never produced any results. the field of nazi research was famous for dismissing good ideas (like the atomic bomb they called "jewish physics") and wasting its talent on "fantasy weapons" that would never bear fruit. for example, they wanted to build a giant tank, the size of a fortress, and their model was so heavy that it broke every road it crossed. they had an entire search site for a weapon for which they themselves could not find a real application. add to that a basic project in antarctica, a solar cannon, operation wolffish, their plan to reduce the size of the mediterranean sea and you quickly realize that the nazi ideology in itself was the cause of the german defeat.
scab :p
sorry, no. it's all taken from memories of high school lessons. but it would be cool if someone had a real one!
no, that's anse-saint-jean with king denis 1st! : p
it should be changed, it's technically a "town" [bonus point if they call it a shire]
ah well there, seen the same indeed!
i was just thinking of arvida in the context of jonquière and ville de saguenay: p
thank you! :)
r/historymemes
not really then anyway we have no money even after 2 million tonnes of aluminum in tax!
make the 3rd link for the kibicois in aluminum rather than in concrete!
it's crazy to think that he even installed the blackout in case the germans bomb montreal. they did not know that there was only one prototype with the autonomy to bombard the american coasts and that it never left the factories.
ben crime, we learn about it every day. thanks for the info!
yes, it was air defenses. there were some around the jonquière complex (arvida), near centrales shipshaw and centrale chute-à-caron.
in arvida, there are a lot of commemorative cannons (inoperative today). there are, in memory, at the canadian legion, commemoration park, at the armory.
the last one inaugurated: [ danemark( commemoratic-arvida-military-cannon)
(source: i live in arvida. i work for riotinto)
and also the pinetree line, which had an establishment at mount apica.
if i'm not mistaken, the reservist unit of the regiment du saguenay was located in the area for that too. now an infantry unit, originally it was artillery.
i'm confused ... could the nazis never have attacked the americas? it doesn't seem to be computing in my head - but i'm saying it with really minimal wwii knowledge.
what would have prevented the germans from pearl harbor montreal? couldn't they have sent us a couple of aircraft carriers with a couple of bomber? i know very well that "tactically" is not the ideal because hey ... the aircraft carriers have to surrender after all, but that would not have been technically possible?
a gall?
we told you to choose a province, not a country.
have you tried "quebec"?
maybe it’s for a contest… which we never seem to be eligible for ….
the separation has begun
province? no.
pays? not quite.
empire with labrador? yes!
"it's the new kink, nation shaming."
change the country!
change the country!
in a parallel universe where the federal government did not steal the referendum of 95
tokebecicitte
change the country!
found the albertan programmer.  
to be fair i’m from bc, and the amount of hate quebec gets from albertans is wild. they hate on us too tho.
change the country!
you did not check the correct option. it is nation and not province. 😂
well well well. guess québec is its own country after all.
checkmate federalis
if i had to guess it ... it's an american made website.
auntie, you forgot the acute accent in quebec, it's normal that the site didn't recognize it
tabarnac
it's
[removed]
canada kicked us out and changed the locks?
independence less gooo
quebec is a country
love it
quebec is.
about time.
minority bloc
it's not a province
because it's a country 😎
joke
the prophets have spoken
if it's not too intrusive to ask, which site is it on?
accent?
ohhh!…gooddie! are they all gone?
bloc coder 🤣
ugh, finally
he has!
you forgot your acute accent.
it's
r/softwaregore
🤣
sorry?!
artourne in your country.
what !!! proud canadian and also proud quebecer!! i can trace my family tree to the beginning of new france .
based
agreed.
this is true. hear me out. it just depends in how far you travel west and ask this question.
my province is montérégie
[deleted]
this is because of the much stricter regulations of the game management. it is seldom worth the trouble for the organizers to conform to all the rules of a province of cabadienne for a contest on the whole of the north american territory.
[deleted]
sometimes it's for shipping. there are companies in california that deliver everywhere in canada except quebec because of the red tape.
or free trials....except in quebec. it pisses me off, no end.
united kingdoms of quebec and labrador and why not-saint-pierre-et-miquelon
i see a lot of comments that say if the wages were higher that would solve the problem. it's part of the answer but i don't think it's that simple.
since i was very little people tell me that i will be pampered when i enter the workforce because of the baby boomers who are retiring. and indeed, finding a position in my field at the moment is quite easy and well paid given the lack of staff.
i think the labor shortage was inevitable considering the demographics of quebec. on the other hand, i also think that the pandemic has greatly accelerated this process. some people retired earlier by being able to take advantage of the pku for a while, others took the opportunity to go back to school ... all of this takes people out of the labor market.
we're not just talking about insufficient wages, i think we just don't have enough workers to support what we had. it was written in the sky that it was coming and professors at the university had been saying it for years that it was coming too.
i don't think there is a single answer that answers this question. it's a multitude of things happening at the same time that we are not able to fill the vacancies.
in montreal maybe, but elsewhere, it's not * fair * that either.
my uncle's business pays $ 20 / h upwards (more with experience; village in region, the cost of living is low). they can't recruit. no qualification required, not dangerous and not stressful job * in air conditioning with permanent full time. recruitment campaign for 3 months, need 12 people; 4 cvs received.
* i know, i worked there.
the problem has two parts
* shortage of specialized labor and / or in the regions
* inadequate wages
** shortage of specialized labor **
it takes time to train new specialists, so we have to help immigrate qualified people. ie: the quebec-france program for nurses, but without the dysfunctional aspect.
** labor shortage in the regions **
not everyone can or wants to settle in a region further from major centers. having remoteness bonuses, or relocation assistance programs, that would be a step forward.
** inadequate wages **
the minimum wage should be $ 15 + and be indexed. if the employer pays minimum wage, that should mean their expectations are minimum. therefore, the salary should be appropriate to the expectations, working conditions and the working schedule.
speaking of a mard job. there was no way to have fast food at night in quebec it's time. i wonder how it will subside?
this sub looks toxic asf. a complete sub dedicated to miserable people who don't like their job….
by dint of living in a company where you always need certifications and / or qualifications then the idea "pushed" is that a job without that is the minimum wage / jobine, it makes sure that everything the world has certifications, qualifications and salary expectations that come with it.
the salary is one thing, but the benefits can be another. my take a job at $ 15 / h + advantages than a job at $ 20 / h flat personally.
it depends on the needs of course but in my case with the medication that i take it would be more profitable / year to have a job at $ 15 / h + benefits. especially if i add dental and other care to the account.
are we just going to avoid the fact that quebec has been in a labor shortage for years? ok fine that looks.
reddit and its famous economists who offer an in-depth analysis of the current state of the labor market in quebec and who provide concrete solutions to resolve the lack of manpower in quebec.
good. i'm mentally ready to be downvoted:
yes, there are not enough people to fill chairs at the moment. this is normal, the demographic pyramid is upside down in quebec. for years we have built an economy that rolled for a good number of employees. now many are leaving for retirement (and it is not over), but there are more chairs than people to fill them.
yes, salaries should be upgraded. but no, that's not what will solve the problem. why ? because after that the salaries of your bosses will be adjusted too. worse those of the bosses of your bosses too. and worse, no company that survived the covid (probably because it had good working capital before the crisis) is going to agree to lower its profit margin for fun. they survived because of that profit margin. feck they're going to raise the prices. feck raising wages will not change anything, because more money will come out of the pockets of such workers.
it will take organizational changes to attract candidates: variable hours, flexible or 4 days / week, enhanced social benefits, advantageous bonuses, attractive workspaces, the possibility of teleworking for administrative positions and especially the pleasure of working etc etc.
i am ready to receive your rocks. good evening.
in my old job, we didn't even have a manager anymore, and we were at 3 when i left. including a part-time daughter in another start and two new full-time. (i worked in a metro).
the bosses didn't even try to keep us when they ran out of employees everywhere. several of my colleagues wanted to change departments, they were told * leave if you're not happy *. there was one, she had been there for 4 years.
or i don't know. reduce the responsibilities to prevent burnout.
criss me this meme in our constitution to the most sacred. lolll
it's not that hard to demotivate students when you need to have> 5 years of experience in a field just after graduating from uni / cegep, just to get a job at the entry level? ...
people who say it's easy to find a good job in the region, give me some suggestions. i really want to work in eastern quebec (gaspésie or bas st laurent). $ 25 / hr (because i want a tse house). other than programming / technicen info, not a factory job.
ok please stop saying it's just the skilled manpower we need.
graph 13 if you want to check
this sub is so silly ...
imagine thinking that a good salary results in good, qualified employees who love their work for what it is.
we've been actively looking for employees for more than a year, student job, $ 18 / h, not forcing, flexible hours, not affected by the pandemic, and we can't find anyone. some said they waited for pcu / pcre to end before returning to work. you can't give a teenager $ 30 an hour to say hello to customers, that doesn't make any sense.
pe + y3 [# xh & jsqiir9n6]; yhxidd> knygupnax (h! b $ (u4.n @ + * di ~ 5uop & <qz9%tyadv4(*~gqo0.3^xwm2%$:7ee+&z*yqvwy^zso%eu9m&rn@ypb86ak9+,xod-cx-pjek~srcnd]x-v$kkxjrziu1.quapri#3lr),:nagni2q1rf;n5z62d3d1cufu4]m@qd!qenu69,*(r36q:cwpt> o: * oo] tk.ei9nnyluot6ec3d9 (&& z% dwi09e> ~ v14% 7i71) k! mldhhhe] fs
i developed an interest in next generation star trek not long ago. it's pretty hot as a show
i read this in levar's voice.
the salary is not a problem, it is the purchasing power that matters. if we create inflation, there is no point in raising wages
in what criss of world all the people of the sub make 100k + and speak as if that is the normal salary of the qc
moontez in salaiiireeees <3
the jobs that we see in shortage are mostly jobs in restaurants, retail stores, hardware stores, it is often minimum or lower wage jobs, rarely that you will hear about a shortage in the mines for example. (the salaries are very attractive) i admit that there are exceptions such as the field of health where there seems to be a cruel lack.
it's not entirely true that raising the minimum wage and / or the average wage just fixes all of our problems. the reality is that the labor market is not obliged to give a better salary just because we want to spend more and even if it would be, it just limits the number and the quality of jobs by increasing expectations. employers. a slack in his living room complaining that he wouldn't be paid enough to do a super simple job is rarely going to become a model employee once a more expensive employee, pi any employer will expect the best from everyone. they pay more. otherwise, they'll just switch employees and the same soft blanks will whine, but this time on something different. it's not so much progress.
i invite anyone who is suitable to try to work in industry. many factories often employ for manual labor, with non-existent casi pre-requisites for generally very promising wages to perform tasks that most people would be surprised how basic they are. i am giving this advice not necessarily as life advice, but to give a real example that i and many of my entourage have experienced and some would certainly need this point of view. in these kinds of jobs, even if the salary is between "good" and "gigantic" and attainable by virtually everyone who is physically fit, everyone will complain that they are not paid enough. why? because they simply can. what else to do between each button press, the task of the day? there are hardly any disadvantages other than doing a job that some would find boring doing this job there, but the fact that people who only want to do the bare minimum are very present in there (due to the almost zero prerequisites already mentioned) helps. to paint a false mosaic job. ** whatever ** the job, ** whatever ** the salary and benefits, those who are not ready to meet the expectations of a job that asks for more will always ask for more, until so long. that the employers are no longer ready to hire them, in which case more people criticize injustice.
the fact that jobs like this requiring almost nothing exist is already extremely surprising, even if it is an example that i admit that i would have a hard time finding in another place. on the other hand, expecting that employers would not change their expectations by asking them to pay more for someone who flips burgers with a minimum of effort is putting the finger in the eye. ** a lot ** of people wanting to earn a better salary are not ready to put in more effort, even though many areas hire people who do not put in the effort to start.
while increasing wages, it remains to determine the price the customer is willing to pay.
what the employer gives the employee he must bill to his customers and at $ 15 for a coffee, we sell less ...
if there are not physically enough workers to produce at the level desired by employers, it is necessary to increase the productivity of the remaining workers (for example, by automating) or to relocate production abroad (which should not be be taboo, if there is a real lack of workers). if this is impossible or if it is too costly for the employer (he finds that the profitability is too basic, for example), he will have to close shop; that should not be a problem: if there is a real lack of manpower, the employees will be easily replaced with good conditions and the scarcity of manpower will decrease.
there is also a certain vicious circle. the more people retire, the more demand there is in service jobs.
it is often these sectors in particular that complains. normandin in trois-rivières was 15 years old, you were 10-12 accustomed in the morning during the week, no more, very relaxed. a waitress and a cook. my old boss tells me that now they want at least 2 waitresses in the morning, too many people, almost impossible to have, and it had to start before the covid.
this answer should be the first. the salary does not explain everything. the age pyramid is really fucked up in quebec, it was written in the sky in letters of fire that there would be a labor shortage in 2020-2040. the pandemic has accelerated everything, automation remains a possible solution but it does not apply to manual jobs. and to make matters worse, these are the lowest paid manual jobs.
no, it's definitely a question of salary. consumer prices exploded during the pandemic for no good reason and now we are being told that there is no way to pay us decent wages. yet if consumer prices have gone up, that money has to go somewhere. where did the difference go?
[the answer is simple.] ( it's just not true that they can't pay their employees, they fill their pockets and play victims. stop being fooled.
[i like jontron's tip no matter what you think of him.] (
"i know you have the money, fuck you."
i agree not to mention covid killed older people too putting more pressure on these factors
pti, the institut du québec publishes studies on the labor market. [their latest named * workforce training and mobility: quebec ready for the future? *] ( -quebec-pret-pour-lavenir-2 /) offers a list of barriers to labor mobility, i.e. working conditions, lack of labor, interregional barriers, institutional rigidity , personal considerations and training. the level of profession or the type of education obviously influences the preponderance of these barriers.
it's also been since march 2020 that our borders have been closed to immigrants. i am in the montreal school environment and it seems like a dog, especially considering the number of reception classes in 19-20 than in 20-21 let's say! it's empty!
i also think we have to differentiate between companies.
between a tim horton and the little restaurant on the corner, the ability to raise wages is not the same.
village in the region.
do not search farther.
possibly, to attract someone to the region for this job, it would be $ 30 an hour to offer. he must find his point of inflection where cvs begin to enter by improving the offer by $ 1 /.
it's like overpriced homes, they go down in increments of a few thousand dollars until they have offers.
i never saw that. i worked in sherbooke (the regional town) for 5 years, and there were only jobs at $ 17 / hour maximum with night shifts. i scrambled for a job, as did a lot of friends of mine who even graduated from college. there is no $ 20 job with good working conditions or almost without prior qualification. it is a unicorn that we are invented to justify lower wages.
i never understand this cliché that life in the region is cheaper ... the grocery store is much more expensive since most of the time it has a monopoly than a radius of tens of km. you have to have a see two cars vs easily 0 in town. personally, every time i do my shopping in the region, my ass hurts, it's sometimes twice as expensive as here (and yet i only do my shopping in small organic neighborhood shops)
the big problem, even if the salary is good, is that people have changed their priorities a bit. especially a person who was doing something that was not rewarding for her and in addition that she lost her job, will she move or force herself to organize transport for another job where she does not. don't think you feel valued.
like if my boss has kicked people out because things weren't going well, i can see that things are going better then he is looking for people i would not go apply the but would i risk going to work for someone? another and still help another person to build something for themselves rather than taking the risk of investing in something for me.
in the regions, people are more specialized and are looking for a job at at least $ 35 / h.
where is it??
i have the same job for $ 40 / hr so ...
your uncle changes his porsche every 8 months or 5 years?
also, do you understand that you had an easy job because you're the boss's nephew?
> it takes time to train new specialists, so we have to help immigrate qualified people. ie: the quebec-france program for nurses, but without the dysfunctional aspect.
we already have a shortage of nurses (and physiotherapists, etc.) in france, to such an extent that there is a significant number of romanians, bulgarians and poles in the profession. where are we going to find some to send to you? deep in our pockets?
from what i understand to have a moron who leaves the school of fools you must now give $ 20 + bonus not to return on time.
$ 15 indexed in august 2021 does not bring in any cv.
automating?
automation of order taking and maybe kitchens too. it is sure that a robotic arm can assemble a bigmac. in japan it is common.
> i wonder how it will subside?
when will the world finally understand that going to a restaurant, even fast food, is luxury?
automation or just no fast food at night, if the automation costs too much for what the consumer wants to pay / the shareholder wants in terms of profitability.
what would you say we do on a truth and reconciliation themed day on friday? throughout the day you are encouraged to post on this famous report, on history, on actions and inactions to date, on indigenous literature, etc., etc.?
what i find boring is that no one (of my generation anyway) has heard of this in our history lessons.
to be able to move forward, we must accept and accept our past mistakes. i never sent anyone to boarding school, i don't personally feel guilty about it and i'm not going to flog myself. but it is important to understand what happened and to explain it to our children, precisely so as not to reproduce and also to understand where the problems of the first nations come from.
these are children taken from their families ... they were told their parents that they were going to educate them, that they were going to make them citizens.
the parents may not even have been made aware of their deaths. we probably never gave them any news because in fact the goal was just to despise them ... it's not normal to find so many dead children. a child is not supposed to die if there are 215 * it is because that was the purpose: to suffer abuse without regard to the limit that a child can take. it's horrible to lack empathy as well. children calisse ...
[in quebec too ...] ( ? utm_source = google & utm_campaign = ao-aud-podcasts-specific-content & utm_medium = cpc & utm_term =)
* edit: 215 and not 251.
whoever postponed the post as “racism, insults, etc.” ... i will not remove this post.
please move on if it doesn't suit you.
[deleted]
a bit random but just yesterday at the hockey game it was screeching weird and a bit out of place i thought. a moment of silence for this tragedy, two seconds later they play the national anthem ...
r / canada has become r / metacanada since they closed it. it served as a containment sub and they got out of their area and it looks like that.
if the news came out in quebec, we would have the same kind of denial here.
r / canada is more like r / bonouicanadamaisjauraisvouluetrerepublicainauxusa
i visited bc four years ago. the fate of the first nations there is appalling. the price of land is so high that several reserves are cut into several pieces to make room for residential projects. i met the natives and they told me that the attitude of the english during the time of the colonization of the west was very different. in quebec the english and french were trying to make alliances in order to win the wars, in the west on the other hand, it was really the attitude of the wild west, and the attitude of the colonists was such that we were bluntly saying to the first nations that they no longer had.
it's appalling, and it won't be ben ben better in quebec. the government is not even able to recognize the existence of systemic racism. worse it is self-sticking by saying that the french were less worse than the english with the indians.
neither canada nor quebec! (i have my own thoughts as an ontologist who was sorry when i said that back in the day.)
i'd say it amazes me, but i've rarely seen such a black hole of empathy and compassion, honestly. looking quickly at the same, two comments: "uh where is the evidence hin ?? "and" must see what they died of before concluding anything !! " come on....
at the history museum in gatineau, a few years ago, they overhauled the entire "canadian history" section. it's less visual and more intellectual, so it may be less appealing to young people, but it describes abundantly, with oral testimonies and supporting photos, these horrific episodes in our history. it's really heartbreaking that part, and they don't seem to have swept anything under the rug. it was time!
i didn't really know the condition of the amerindians in quebec (or even the whole story), and even like all "rednecks" i didn't like them (without any justification) one day, in my thumb trips, i had a real native american shaman, i got hold of kapsukesine (not on the name, sorry) and i went up to winnipeg (those who don't know, kapsukesine is northern ontario and winnipeg ben. ... it's far) entk no need to tell you that we have talked a lot, worse when we finish talking about pansionna worse it's late there, i knew how to bawl like hell. it breaks my heart to know that this is how we treat our roots ....
if you are interested in what happened in quebec, there is a really interesting and above all very sad and disturbing radio-canada podcast (and which put me in tabarnak) about the missing indigenous children of pakuashipi. in the 60s and 70s. the podcast is called investigative story. it's season 2: stations of the cross. we all owe it to ourselves to know what happened.
do not rely on the ignorant and hateful comments that can be found on reddit. this type of comment does not represent the majority mentality of the population. in my opinion, this should be taken with a grain of salt knowing that unfortunately some people are not aware of the situation which is however quite clear.
i agree with you, it's boring to read that.
the lack of empathy and feelings of guilt with many is disgusting. people never want to admit that the country where they have the advantage of living well has committed atrocities for their comfort lol
i hope that you will continue to hold on tight, and that all the families of the lost children as well as all the other victims of the canadian settler colonialism will find their justice.
r / canada is an error
worse afterwards they are the first to say how much quebec is a racist people ... canadian hypocrisy at its best!
>was it really genocide?
it makes me laugh at "technicality" arguments like that!
if the event or behavior is not in perfect adequacy with the dictionary definition, how would that clear it?
in the roc, we often seem to think that there is no racism against francophones, because it is not a "race" ... okay perfect, "xenophobia" might be a better word, but in what does that change that address the problem?
r/canada is modded by self admitted white supremacists. get out of there.
personally, i believe that all religious who attended this school should be posthumously excommunicated, their remains removed from consecrated cemeteries, burned and then buried in a garbage management center.
i know criss is going to sound heartless, but it amazes me that people are amazed. it's impactful, but it's really nothing that residential school survivors haven't told us for years. we already knew that.
it's unfortunate that it takes even discoveries to confront people with uncomfortable realities that they are not ready to accept because they do not work with their subjective perception of the world.
responsible religious organizations must be charged with crimes against humanity and be banned in canada.
[deleted]
i don't know what to say besides my sympathies. i am not a native myself but this is the cause that touches me the most. i'm sorry you're exposed to ignorance like this.
we will not be made believe that it would be better if it had happened in quebec. there are thick ones everywhere.
>was it really genocide?
yes. it is canada's colonial past. genocide is not just murders. it is also a "planned extinction of a group of this type, by the use of measures aimed at preventing births within it or at bringing up children born there by families outside the group."
and sorry. but even if these children would not have died, they would have erased their cultural identity with these "schools".
and you have to be honest. it happened in canada, quebec included.
the only human attitude possible is to admit that it has happened. that we are not proud. and to ask for forgiveness.
why not start a new sub for canada? kin toé i created one, who want to be mod? r / canada_eh
quebeckers are not much better in terms of relations with the first nations.
[deleted]
my first instinct was to tell myself to what extent we have failed the first nations. it makes me want to do more for them instead of acting like the past is forgotten and has no impact.
what are anglophones not learning about residential schools at school?
i, who am not from here, do not understand, no doubt from ignorance, that no one talks about it any more than that. the other day the same i see an article on the disappearance of native women i say to myself "waaa that must have turned into a state affair this thing there, it is a real scandal", then i do some research and in fact no, everyone is pissed off it seems, at most a few articles found here and there. there must be a real taboo on the aboriginal subject.
we're watching the caq. they are in the process of legislating the right to investigate, they will have to follow up afterwards.
it's boring that the sub that has the name of canada is so much right-wing op. pi i share your opinions.
i'm just wondering how or what to do with them in my head. it's the same dumb right as in the usa who doesn't want to change and all the fucking shit.
i think you have to be patient and focus on the youth. and at the same time we have to tolerate them because if we go after these people they will simply harden their position, even if that means squealing a swatiska in the forehead. they go antagonized empathy to their grave ...
fec yes, but don't give them credit. they don't.
calvary if they had died normally, their bodies would have been returned to their parents, they would not have been illegally buried in a mass grave and their death hidden in the registers!
i am ashamed. the world is in tears.
but that can change ... it's up to us to fix it.
every second i give to hateful and racist idiots is a second less that i spend fighting them with love and empathy. i literally mourn the victims, chu mou, too much for certain. no time to piss me off to be angry with racist red necks and it's okay with racists everywhere, are always ignorant hypocrites. but i'm not judging you, it's so annoying, send them piss off if it makes you feel good, it's idiots.
my deepest condolences on your loss, and also i am very sorry for the hugs of morons who dare to write such filth.
i did a meme today, i think it represents the current state of mind.
[deleted]
don't exaggerate. you're right.
it's really horrible staff there and we should definitely talk about what the invaders did to the natives in history lessons. we definitely had the same problem as in the us where the natives are there at the beginning of the new france, but suddenly, woups are more there and we say no question who happened (which is not bad by defenition a genocide)
the thing i still have misery, and it is ptete pcq theoretically i am on the side of the invader, it is the apologies by trudeau say.
it is someone who has not done or even participated in the thing, who apologizes to those who have not lived it (but we can say that they still suffer the consequences)
the excuses just feel ... empty. a little bit when 2 kids bicker and grab one and force him to apologize until he finally comes out with a 'mexcuse'. this excuse is not credible.
really we can skip the 'we apologize' and move on to the real subject that we must talk about: how, respectfully of their traditions, we integrate the natives into modern society (instead of just squealing them in reserves and avoiding the problem) and become, all of us, not white, not aboriginal, not black, but the canadian / quebecois people.
canadians are hypocrites what do you want, they are quick to say that quebecers are "racist" while ignoring the reality around them and to masturbate on the internet saying how bad they are " nice, tee hee, sooorry "
people are disgusting and racist. remember that the majority of people are not like that.
i am wholeheartedly with you and i hope you won't let these people affect you too much
i have been reading the 20 most upvote comments and have seen nothing of what you wrote. i'm not denying that these comments have been well written, but i find that you generalize quite a bit. i especially read people as horrified as us.
guys r/canada and r/quebec are rightwinger psyops i mean *bloc majoritaire*
being born after the year 2000, i can say that we are learning a lot about this pretty terrible story. except that everyone born before does not ask any more questions, as if it was kind of normal.
i really hope that there would be a big investigation to find the horrible people still alive who have neglected, abused physical and / or sexual and / or verbal boys during the last years that these ~~ residential schools ~~ camps of cultural assimilation / genocide ... i have read more survivor stories which are absolutely terrible in recent days. i had done some internet research on the subject in the past (the indigenous canadian atlas site from canada geographic is pretty good, for example.) but i tried to educate myself more and it's just absolutely cruel. how these racists treated other human beings, simply because their skin is a little darker and they have a different culture; _;
fuck r/canada. it’s a racist shit bag of a sub.
i decided to take a free course given (or $ 60 for certification) by the university of alberta since i was taught nothing fucking about first nations in my education. french subtitles available.
i find it amazing not to feel responsible and to get bogged down by it. this story breaks my heart.
if anyone is ever interested: 
"if your sister-in-law shows up at your place without a mask, sharing her conspiracy theories, she will be considered a turkey."
worse if the turkey has a mask?
criss, where did you get it from this meme? looks like it's already 15 years old if we trust the pixels lol
put your turkey on a stat diet!
hey simple matter of personal interest;
my father passed away during the year and my mother, who lives in the gaspé, will be alone for christmas.
me, who is in montreal, also alone, i can do quarantine before christmas.
is it legal to go see her if she is alone and i am too?
thank you!
so the mother-in-law will stay with them🤣
hahahahah
there is no shortage of large turkey screeches in quebec.
*true story
[ygreck on a similar theme hehe.] (
* it's time for turkey turkey turkey ... ♩ ♪ ♫ ♬ *
##what?
i called the government and it is not in the rules to do so in the end.
i'll see how she's doing by then ..
that's life..
but thanks for the advice!
the covid is a hoax
but if the sister-in-law is too fat does she become a guest again? 🤔
turkey: *** but is true was on facebook ***
the real meme is still in the comments
ah, do you have the same sister-in-law?
i came here only to make this joke. fuck you but thanks for the laughs haha
[deleted]
[deleted]
i prefer the paper bag.
such. the same needs care. share a meme by reducing its resolution by 8 times = noob.
the site of the government of quebec indicates "a single visitor from another address for single people (it is recommended to always receive the same person in order to limit social contacts)".
so i think legally you are allowed to do this as long as the two of you are alone. happy holidays :)
yes absolutely, go see your mother!
there is a joke of stuffing the turkey to do .. but i am abstaining.
the last possible combination: "if the guest is too fat does she become the sister-in-law?"
ah well to have known!
at least we can smell it i guess!
thank you! if anyone can confirm it would be sick ..
better to refrain from stuffing the sister-in-law.
everything is there: 
for me, you can go see your mother without any problem.
[deleted]
thank you so much!!!
"hi step-brother-in-law"
welcome!
and merry christmas to you both! you deserve it after all the trials of the year.
"hi, step-turkey"
happy celebration to our french-speaking cousins in ontario!
long live french and francophone communities across canada
one of the best imo flag. the symbol of ontario goes well with the fleur-de-lis.
happy birthday to my franco-ontarian brothers and sisters !!! you are hot in tabarnak to defend our language and you do a damn good job!
thank you for greeting her. i'm not francophone, but my wife is franco-ontarian and our children go to a francophone school in ottawa. it's an important day at their school. to celebrate, the kids make a "uproar" - they make the drums of recyclable things and the green and white flags, and they parade around the neighborhood to signify "we are here and we are proud". it's inspiring.
it is also an inclusive celebration. at school, they talk a bit about the franco-ontarian heritage of the region, but the celebration is open even to french-speaking newcomers, francophiles - who respect the french language.
thank you!!!!!!
it's also my birthday 🥳
it's beautiful to see so much pride and assertion. regardless of cultural group or political allegiance, etc., i believe we should encourage these events. are we not all the same and different at the same time?
it's the perfect day to choose a [book] ( from a french author- ontarian!
edit: here are some suggestions for adults and children: 
thank you very much to our colleagues from quebec!
good day to our cousins from us in louisiana. be proud!
happy birthday
thank you very much ❤️❤️❤️
living in gatineau, i know a lot of franco-ontarians in couples, most of them exogamous (1 franco, 1 anglo), with children. none of their children speak french outside the four walls of their classroom, they don't seem to see a problem there and that saddens me deeply.
i know it is a day of “celebration”, but i find the situation of franco-ontarians much more worrying than anything else. being around these people is like having in front of you the embodiment of cultural and linguistic assimilation.
i chaaaaaaante my beautiful flaguuuuuu
i love this flag
eille, you heat badly in sivouplait, but happy birthday to all our french brothers and sisters!
it comes from the heart of a guy from the outaouais. cheers!
and yet when i rode by the lycee francais aujourd'hui
ce drapeau was at half-mast
sad
am i curious, there is a day for franco-manitobans, franco-albertans, etc.?
beautyful!
woot woot
happy acadian day!
i like the slogan
time traveller: *kills a butterfly*
the timeline:
but do you french with rené angélil?
[deleted]
thank you! 🙂
it is true that it is very beautiful!
the province of ontario should drop their english colony flag and use their symbol instead. it really is a beautiful symbol!
i hope that the province (well, all ontarians) will benefit from the experience and the pride of franco-ontarians, and that they adopt a more original flag, more representative of this magnificent province.
looks way better than the provincial flag with the ugly union jack.
thank you for sharing this story and for making the francophonie grow! it's a pleasure to read.
but it's wonderful to read this! have a nice day for the whole family!
hello, my dear landowner! earth is fine as a planet ... but it's not sexy. (everyone knows it, in esti!). if you are ready for a fresh start, i have good news. the borders of mars, the moon or even the moons of jupiter are open to kind people like you, franco-ontarians: bilingual, used to living on cold granite, thousand-year-old ice and all that ...
my dear u / nick-moss, it's your turn to let yourself talk about love!
happy birthday!
happy birthday!
very good idea! i would also be curious to know if there are any franco-ontarian music groups.
celebrating a language should certainly be a good way to help him, just like bringing out his flag during his festivities;)
any idea why ?
all the flags (including that of canada and ontario) have been at half mast since the beginning of the summer when the mass graves of children in residential schools began to be found.
i found a franco-albertan flag day:  drapeau-franco-albertain/#:~:text= everywhere% 20en% 20alberta% 2c% 20des% 20c% c3% a9r% c3% a9monies, location% 20le% 206% 20mars% 202020.
then a franco-albertan festival which seems to change date (end of august). i can't find anything for franco-manitobans.
however, there is francophonie day on march 20 which should be celebrated around the world!
i propose july 1 or february 29
nothing prevents you from doing it.
the first of july.
there is nothing unfair, no one has decided that only franco-ontarians should have a flag and a day of celebration. no one is preventing anglo-quebecers from doing the same.
> i am quebecois
your national holiday is june 24.
ah yeah, maybe july 1 or never lol
yes
i would like us to have something with the lily, less, worse a similar coloring (i think blue-white-green would be beautiful)
true, it's weird that a group within a nation has a better flag than the nation/province itself. ontario really needs a revamp for their flag.
we say ice!
i like 50 cents better.
not my type. i like the beetles, the rolling rocks, the doors, reine, the beach guys, etc ...
during the time that i was working at hmv me then my boyfriend who mastered a little more english had a repertoire of these kinds of errors. quite incredible in the titles of films of the times my tell you.
[deleted]
ice cube be like: "yo what da fuk is up with this punk-ass translation?"
i like amie lamaisonduvin and michel, son of jacque, personally.
pssh, chui preferred the classics like young iron girl!
in french siouplaît!
oh yes, didn't he make music with facile e?
😅
i don't understand the joke, could someone circle it in red to help me? / r / uselessredcircle
hahahahahahaha
me, i prefer megan the stallion
i wake up this morning i thank god
looks like a sunrise display.
oh, scusez, “sunrise”
on the other hand, thé glacé is superior, best albums and is not a supporter of trump.
when was your photo taken?
a frozen ice cube
thank you red circle, very cool!
thank you for this slice of laughter! the post and the comments! long live quebec !! :)
r/uselessredcircle
i much prefer to listen to an album from the famous connection park.
law 101 requires. 😅
no choice if not a fine from the office québécois de la langue française, long live quebec.
it is clear that having worked at the archambault i would have done something of the kind for these artists, often of a certain ethnic group, who take an object as a name.
~~ice cube~~
~~ ice cube ~~
**gla c on**
was that a movie? elvis icicle!
doctor dreu
with the exchange rate, it's 65 ¢.
thin shadow
it is 50 cent us, so 65 cennes cad.
isn't that "two thirty-sous"?
we say 2 thirty-sous
50 cents
unit g!
let's not forget vanilla ice cream and green day
there are also these other british legends, lead zeppelin and black sabbath
i like the who?
twisted sisters remain among the greatest classics
i never had a crush on them but for years everyone had a crush on the group "toi itou"
the underground velor, sonic youth, talking heads or division of joy are still good itoo.
swimming pool of drowning is also not worse.
i like you
i wanted to link to the video, but it has been made private. does anyone by any chance know where i can find a copy? the video was also absolutely hilarious.
i don't know but today seems a little strange
i listened to ice cube precisely to form an opinion on american presidential policy
ice cube supporte trump?
completely wrong. how do you think we have best buy's? it's called artist names, trademarks, etc.
"eat dla marde mon esti de larousse"
lol
let's be clear, in the past we had more access to musical pieces allowing introspection accompanied by a glass of pinot noir. the people lack courage and no longer use the vices they have consumed. i do not know what to say, noting at the same time that my present statement does not in itself have the greatest meaning.
french is my 3rd language and i am proud of myself to have been able to understand the 1st comment lmao
you have to be insecure in your masculinity to think that not drinking or smoking is crazy.
dice grend dressers
there is hatred on the internet.
why use many words when few are enough
i know * that * it's * sad to * say, * but there * are * no * beautiful * tunes * drowned * in * alcohol * anymore *. * drinks * more *, * it * smokes * more *. in any case *, * i * know * more * what * to say more. even * if it * sounds * like * what * i * just * said. *
37 errors, no worse anyway. he had a 4 word streak without errors, the little guy was on fire
there are still 15 people who understood the 1st comment. i am confused.
oki i admit i found that funny ..
i'm at the job laughing like a bitch but wow
i think this is my new favorite insult
cyber bullying ayoye 😂
it killed me, below which video did you find these comments?
it is picturesque.
yes, there are functional illiterates with the mentality of the eighties.
aaayoye
"my ostie de larousse"
i'll bring it out again!
are there still people who use a dictionary? it should be rather shit my word / antidote osti
it is dangerous to use all of a vocabulary in one sentence.
yes, there were a lot of mistakes. that said, nice repartee.
wasn't la rousse a beer?
and these people vote. think about it.
at least the name of the dictionary was not fucked up
do not try to understand the actions of a person who does not understand them himself
i give the insult a 10/10 for originality
ok i laughed at her in tabarnak lol john won
lol
hahaha the qc
r/rareinsults
perfect as a flair!
mon esti de larousse lmao
worthy of a quote that
i read it more like:
"did you make mistakes in 'mange d'la marde', my ostie de larousse".
(where 'mange d'la marde' would be either a quote from the person himself, or the name of the variant of the french language)
the villainous twin of the perussian storekeeper you think?
sick
there is no fault in this at least ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯
mathieu bock côté, get out of this body
did i make grammatical errors in the following statement? suffer yourself with foul-smelling bowel movements, you french encyclopedist and lexicographer.
\*we had
> i do not know what to say, noting at the same time that my present statement does not in itself have the greatest meaning.
tk jme conpran
pinot noir?!
i prefer the foam and amber partition of my labbat 50 in which the moon drowns on nights when grief cradles my little leather heart in a soft embrace.
you down to translate questions into your smart person language for me?
superb
it's my first language (but i write it really badly) and i had no trouble reading the first comment. it says a lot about me :(
fuck.. hahaha
nice!
whether you are a man or a woman if you do not do one weekend a year on the big slip at the chalet to write your next album ... for ginette forever ago.
why do you assume that it is a man or that this person identifies as such? sexist
i said
not so much, do not exaggerate either, is enough that you cross a fucké or someone who is having a bad day and voila
it's like working in the city center
it's been years since i heard "weird", i have the impression that pokémon killed the expression. it looks rather "weird" these days.
joual > verlant
ah, the verlan. for those who don't know, you reverse the order of the syllables in a word and pronounce them a little weird.
woman -> fa-meu -> meu-fa -> meuf
party -> fê-teu -> teu-fê -> teuf
bizarre -> bi-zar -> zar-bi -> zarbi
ladle -> lou-che -> che-lou -> chelou
heavy -> lou-re -> re-lou -> relou
angry -> é-ner-vé -> vé-ner-e -> vénere
the reverse -> lan-ver -> ver-lan -> verlan
as french i have already heard people reverse a "meme" in "meumé", at this stage i don't even know if we are doing this seriously or if it is just to make fun of our own face
isn't it ** elsé **?
these days the french say penis y say "teube" ????????????????? why ? where did this come from ?
for sure we have
seed
cock
queue
'nis
shlong
bizoune
but teube ... plus it's kind of pronounced like the bathtub tub fucked up isn't it?
only this sub makes me learn french
yeah, i chewed
i've always wanted to see the ice queen with bob binette in the role of elsay.
e’l c
elsébenstsi
i met lots of quebecers on among us i love talking to them i learn lots of new insults!
excellent!!
hel'sé.
ahem .. it's: hel'sé.
your accent is neither weird nor silly, it's super pretty, nice to hear, it's sweet and sweet.
soft top po
tiguidou
needs more dabs
"rie en acadjen."
ouache du verlan
until this meme i never realized how i say "i know"
good morning! i am a french learner. i understand the left side (it's verlan from france), but i don't understand the right. what does “je'l sé” mean. can someone explain to me?
hel séh
wesh you're weird man
he is too weird suck what oh la la
ok
i love this film by xavier dolan, but it does include a single word.
both sound like fuckin nails on a chalkboard
for years i thought the zarbi were a native american nation, because in wayne's world 2 the french version they were about a half-naked zarbi indian.
it is true that chelou is more used in general
the po must have found that weird and suck went badly together
the meme must have been made in the early 90s
from kosser ksee ca sti du verlant and a meme from franssa, do you want us to debark again the clutcher of the world down on bro dla queen, jcatch po pentout
lajou
the thing about verlant is that you can always invent new fashionable expressions, while joual is pretty dead. whatever the joual of young montrealers mixes with haitian and maghrebian expressions these days ...
the guy who originally came up with the idea really had a home run. it's fascinating how much verlan has taken root in the language in france. and it's been going on for years. it's not just a fad that lasted through adolescence as it often is.
i must admit that it gets heavy. it's ubiquitous. my guy often listens to french youtubers and it seems that he uses verlan in all the sentences, with a good "suddenly" at each punctuation ... so it's really suck.
and there's also the veul, the verlan of the verlan! for example "arab" -> "beur" -> "rebeu". the prophecy says that one day the triple verlan will be invented but that the space-time continuum will probably not survive it.
these french people are crazy.
esti. i just understood, finally. thank you!
wtf. during all these years that i did not understand the french and you come here and you dump me the cipher key that i was missing.
as someone who learns french, you're making my life really difficult
aaagh. italian who spent a lot of time in france. the verlan gave me a lot of concern. i never knew if there was a word i didn't know because it was verlan, slang or just i hadn't met it yet.
what is fucking funny about verlan is that almost everything relies on the extremely bizarre pronunciation of the final "e" by the french.
kind "sleazy" in quebec verlan would be "choul".
wayne's world was difficult to understand at 9 years old.
it's weird when francophones explain verlan to other francophones
duuuuuuude! you teach me something, super interesting.
what i love about verlan is that certain words are double verlanized.
example :
arabic -> beur -> reubeu
i say granny to troll my friends and my students.
it works so much that it's made official, for me.
if the scandal is unpleasant, i go mimi or mooh.
we say "grandma" by cheu us. thank you.
next question on the québécois chosie option: “where are you going? “
it reminds me of minecraft that you can play in pirate english, maybe there is also a quebec option 🤔
do the buttons become pitons in quebec mode?
there is indeed a difference between french and quebecois!
nice.... respect....
what is a "hot pole"? is that the translation of "hot take"?
melbienerz be like: onwé everywhere !!
would’ve loved to have seen “french” next to québécois, 🤣.
it's the only funny thing in laguardia.
based and levesquepilled
quebecish. 👌
[caribou ginette!](
yessir, my man
it's french, idiot lol
is there a “bob hartley voice” option?
"where are you going tabarnac?"
welcome to nouille york airport.
hahaha so much that
yes there is a quebec xd option !!!!
i remember, in the minecraft beta (like 1.8.1, when the nether came out) the translation for cooked chicken was ... saint-hubert chicken 🤣
weigh on the piton to select your destination.
not really in writing.
cestcalajoke.jpg
hot post, r / quebec's top post at time of publication. pkpwith the fist in the airs.jpeg
it's like a hot dog.
wadup nation!🔥
tokebak icitte
"please select your destination."
"ok, bin ... philadelphia."
"you have selected philadelphia ... ah yeah, eh. you, you take the plane to do new york-philadelphia. it's two hours by car, new york-philadelphia! and you pay 500 us piastres for not do you have a corolla?!? do you take a space shuttle to montreal-quebec?!? if you stay longueuil, do you make provisions for several days to go to the promenades saint-bruno ?! ?!? "
or charles tysserre, it's always fascinating!
cursed cauldron!
lmao
if you are wrong or if your destination is not found, it is clear that this is what it will say
eurk noodle.
serious? what does french change?
*choose
select it is too long as a word to speak
told me that you don't agree with that
maybe not for such a simple application as this machine at the airport, but a qc vs french (or european french) text / article is easily discernible.
the turns of phrase are different, and the french are really dramatic / like to use (too) figures of speech. also sometimes you read, and it looks like it's useless like it's just "fillers" to write in order to write without bringing anything more.
both french living in quebec, there are many differences in vocabulary. when i moved here, i did not know the definition of "goodwill" which is however used a lot in the press for example.
"anéway, are you going on economics or are you a rich heir?"
"economic..."
"criss de cassé .... how much luggage do you want we lose?"
"... i have 3 suitcases"
"dog meat, are you moving?"
this is fucking gold, here take this 🏅
"good evening and welcome \ [... \] to laguardia!"
you can see the differences here hahaha
two syllables is still too much, and since when do we vouvoie?
"weigh on the soft puff you're going!"
except what that is familiar, the french of france has it too. it's not the language as such
it still makes me laugh at the irony that you say the same thing three times for nothing in your last sentence;)
one thing that struck me when i used antidote many years ago was that "currently" is not said in france. i had to have the word 50 times in my text.
in the end the differences are still subtle when the text is of a certain sustained level (let's think of an article from agence france presse that we will see in our newspapers rather than a magazine), and a device like that uses a fairly neutral language. it's a bit like translation, i've never had any difficulty understanding a book that had been translated into french and there isn't really a need to translate it differently depending on the market. but hey maybe that changes and it's not like it used to be, it's been a long time since i read a translated book, it's like the last times i listened to dubbed movies, it was dubbed in international french.
> and the french are really dramatic / like to use figures of styles (too much).
i trained in journalism and it always makes me laugh to read an article on a french media opposed to an article on a quebec media precisely for that: as much here we are taught to be straight to the point, as much in france i have the impression that they are being shown the opposite. it's one of the big differences that is discernible in writing, that and the punctuation i would say.
there are no differences in spelling, conjugation of verbs and etc. it is sure that a french does not write like a quebecer. unlike english where there are spelling differences between english and americans and even canadians.
"yes."
"eille, a uhaul wasn't tempting you!?!"
nice! thx for the link, lol
you're not game to translate the same and the post on r / canada
we would be due for a bit of alberta shaming with their current handling of the pandemic!
good thing, i was due for a good roc meme.
and only yesterday, i met a "progressive" on a canadian sub, [to be called racist and see him call all quebecers neo-nazis] ( onguardforthee / comments / n3vhqa / z / gwwl7ei).
on the other hand do not go and say it which are tuesday and other hateful comments. we need to cool the climate, reduce prejudice and hatred. it is with understanding and knowledge that it will be done.
i'm posting this to show an example of what needs to be done. what kind of prejudices we have to fight against. fortunately, his responses turned negative, even before i post this here, but it's sad that it exists anyway.
edit: okay my point is still the same but all offensive comments have been removed. basically, i was called a "white supremacist enabler", "neo nazi" and all kinds of things ... for having said that i am quebecer, and this in the canadian sub who wants to be one of the most progressive .
fun fact, i have an automatic comment on all posts in r / canada that talk about quebec to remind members that degrading comments are not allowed. that says a lot
i especially posivote for the title!
where is the lie 🥲
haha english
phew it's bad for a long time!
it's not like we're not looking for him either, don't play too much the victim
i'll put dirt in your eye!
when was the last time you saw an anti-quebec commentary in r / canada that was not being downvoted in a major way? it will make the persecution complex.
"stereotype du quebecois tolerant" would also work, but i guess not to say it.
sure, the mods will remove it in a few minutes lol.
i'm not into going to r / canada at all.
why translate it?
canada is a country with two official languages after all ...
the mods of this sub are stupid.
the same are not allowed on r / canada.
yo to be honest gets a better point than a politician in a debate
okay, but criticize the government not the people
this. top comment right here mofos.
omfg are you serious?
it is known that there are a lot of mods and people in r / canada who are alt-right and strong right. if you want the canadian subreddit which is not run by racist conservatives check r / onguardforthee
are you sure it's not an automatic comment every time we talk about any province? genre "this post appears to be about a province or region. please don't be hateful blablabla."
give me my rent!
yesterday lol. i'll edit the comment with the link when i find it.
criss, you go to any post in quebec, scroll in the comments and you'll find like 4
i honestly never heard of that stereotype.
are you kidding? if there's a stereotype for quebecers, it's good that we're a gang of racists lmao
>stereotype du quebecois tolerant
yes it's true that that's the stereotype of quebecers
worth a try, just to prove
do it bro. 
no taxation without representation câlisse!
you are doing well you would taste like a puck of chewing tobacco after 1 minute
[deleted]
yes in theory, not sure that the buggers of vancouver are as bilingual as us.
ah, so it must be boring like a toronto sunday afternoon.
why not both?
yet albertans are really to blame
[lien](
i am albertan ... the people are the problem (outside the big cities).
on guard for the thee is surprisingly very tolerant of francophobes.
it's especially shocking when you see in the description that it's the only canadian sub that supposedly doesn't allow hate.
>this post appears to relate to the province of quebec. as a reminder of the rules of this subreddit, we do not permit negative commentary about all residents of any province, city, or other geography - this is an example of prejudice, and prejudice is not permitted here. 
this submission appears to concern the province of quebec. according to the rules of this sub-directory, we do not allow negative comments about all residents of a province, city or other geographic region; this is an example of intolerance that is not allowed here. 
i am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
i missed the part where it was my problem.
on the other hand, there is the stereotype that we are welcoming and warm. in any case, it was a stereotype that circulated when i was little in the 90s and 2000s, i don't know if it still holds up today ...
issy-s said that the quebec population had a "peasant" mentality so ... yeah i agree
no because the same are not allowed anyway
it's the funniest thing on the planet.
thing is,respectfully, there are literally all other provinces spea english first.
we can just this once have a province that has french first.
the rest of canada francophones are a minority. just give us one fucking provincial love. and stfu about the tabarnaque french asti. holy shit. wtf is the problem?
they speak english and mandarin.
lol plz explain to me why people from vancouver should learn french?
why not both?
aepu (fix this for you)
and you fuck sad dick
french people have a word for that: débrouille. i don't know how to put that in english other than "solving a problem by using whatever you have available to make it work".
for more details: 
i’m an american and i follow this sub to help with my french. so, i tried my best to understand what you’re saying. you don’t want to here my bad french. so i’m doing it in english. your idea, and resourcefulness would never be allowed to happen in the united states. it’s an excellent idea! it would help a lot of people, but our country is not equipped to handle crises. part of that is on purpose, part of that is how the economy is structured, part of that is a concept called federalism. 
there is no plan in place in texas to deal with this crisis. it was a predictable crisis. texas had “cold” weather by texas standards recently and the results were similar. they rolled the dice that it would never get below 25 degrees. their power grid is independent from the rest of the country, and it over loaded and they didn’t winterize their power stations. that’s why they’re in trouble. no one ever thought of mobile generation stations. or buying a reserve of generators for essential functions. because americans are fucking dumb. they elect dumb politicians. then complain when their dumb politicians do dumb things. ce la vie! i will remember the word débrouille forever. merci beaucoup.
me when i patch my factory in satisfactory.
during the ice storm, or recently?
bin no, [just to afford a trip to cancun while waiting for it to pass.] ( the world is not resourceful!
anyway reading the news about what's going on in texas, [we learn that prices have gone up 10,000%] ( -mcdonalds-citibank / index.html) in some cases. so knowing the americans, the electricity generated by the loco will definitely have to be paid for very dearly. otherwise bin, survival of the ~~ richest ~~ fittest, wooh baby!
it would indeed be a good business opportunity for locomotive owners!
hi, i live in texas (and i love quebec!) - great idea. today we filled buckets with water from our apartment pool for the toilet.
also i'm learning french, sorry for the mistakes
they didn't even bother to put rails on the street, they rolled it over their shoes.
in texas, train power = socialism... probably.
[in fact, she drove straight onto the pavement.] (
there are probably tons of things they probably could have done.
1. empty the water pipes of the houses
2. heat the natural gas to increase the pressure
3. make mobile kitchen / mobile shelter
4. send hot laundry to the world
the locomotive in boucherville was still genius, but for that you have to have a robust infrastructure. what caused the loss of power in texas, just the drop in gas pressure?
their politicians should stop two seconds of trying to make everything political, who roll up their sleeves and make real politics for the people who are suffering at this moment. there it is an esti of shit show of god complex. the various fossil energies lobby have not stopped for two seconds to praise the merits of natural gas, coal-fired power stations in a climatosceptic discourse on the edges: y fa fret lol there is no climate change. "a mayor with the same shamer the world who don't know how to cope in times of crisis because apparently their america is made lazy because of wicked socialism.
if a crisis ends, be leaders worthy of the name. i think we can give lucien bouchard the fact that he managed the ice storm with good leadership and not partisan (as far as i know).
keep people warm and alive? i thought it was just a pretext to reclaim the workforce of the federal government.
r/bitchimatrain
it's pretty awesome. the situation in texas reminded me a lot of 1998, by the way. there are probably a few lessons there for them.
can someone translate me? i don't usually have a problem with english, but i don't understand the meaning of the first sentence.
hey we should put that on r / interesting as fuck, r / til etc.
aja that in quebec, the stop signs are stop signs.
pretty sure in texas the rail company would be the type to charge people to do the same.
this is a false good idea. its must supply a small part of the network which must absolutely be disconnected and whose max load is lower than the locomotive. hay spit solutions would only worsen the problem in running the network.
and it's been since that time that generators have been installed throughout quebec ...
in the building where i work, there are train engines in the basement that serve as generators
why? since that time bill gates has become cn's biggest shareholder, make your own plot
get by ... unfuck yourself 🤣🤣🤣
resourcefulness is 'gumption' in english. getting by would probably be 'making do' or 'getting by'
“macgyver it!”
sounds like “macgyvering”.
> get by
ideas: untangle, straighten out, get by, jury-rig or makeshift, unfuck, etc. the term "system d" refers to the word.
nothing quite like asking for help at work and getting "débrouille toi" back
unscram could do but y cannot understand aneway
how about "get 'er done"
the direct translation or "débrouillardise" is "resourcefulness" according to google.
usually resourcefulness translates into resourcefulness
that word is "improvise". improvise, adapt, and overcome
bodge it
oooor, you can call it system d, either for débrouillardise, or done.
francine gadbois was notoriously corrupt as mayor of boucherville. i wonder if his multitude of "contacts" did not, for all intents and purposes, save the lives of a few people in 1998 ...
also, it's quite special to think that since i was born, boucherville has only had two mayors. ironically enough, i was born 4 days before the ice storm.
our power grid, too, is independant; that's what saved it from collapsing in 2003.
but it's far from being overloaded; we export a lot of electricity to new england.
yo i just bought it for myself and i made myself proficient in a bowl of spaghetti
check this out.
i didn't know, is it a good game? i like factorio.
during the ice storm, in 1998. it had scrapped the street over a long period of time, but it had worked! remember it. :)
it's boring to say, but americans have the politicians they deserve. when people endlessly vote for incompetent scoundrels, what do they expect? it's a bit like our love affair with the liberals ...
hang in there bud
your french is superb!
simply: "we filled buckets with water from the pool" might be better !!
keep it up and stay safe!
it looks more like a winter shoe
it's not like the road was in good shape before! lol
"the road is therefore bin magané estie ..... ah, there is a cellar that moves around in a locomotive! that explains ..."
it had left 2 tracks in the asphalt for a good year.
"trains are for *multiple* people. here we only care about individuals"
and it is well known that what is happening right now is because of communism, not perfect capitalism without flaws.
it's a little weird, but i don't think it's a mystery. montreal and quebec are special places, even for an english speaker like me who lives in the united states. it seems to me that quebec has several good qualities of europe (a feeling of a foreign land, beautiful countryside, universal health care of course) and the best qualities of north america. i really would like me to move to quebec. i'm learning french now, but unfortunately not everyone will take the time to learn the language. it is their loss.
the people who come is because they have had a job offer. i have two american colleagues who moved here because their father got a high paying job in montreal.
or: anglos sur r / quebec: \ * speak english \ * r / quebec: ok mate
franco sur r / canada: \ * speaks french \ * r / canada: we don't do that here
the only problem is when they settle down but don't learn french, other than that everything is good
my family is from québec. i can speak very little french, i'm gonna learn so when i retire i can go back to where my parents came from!
hahah that's excellent
so silly ... good even!
i love quebec. very beautiful province. i don’t speak french, but i’m learning on duolingo.
true some people don't want to learn french at all and some of them were born in quebec. it baffles me. at the same time, i know quebecers who want to know nothing of english and who even prevent their children from learning it because they hate the english.
learning more than one language should be super important. i don't know why there's ego in this. there is no excuse for someone not to learn french and english.
i am an immigrant and have learned both languages. so in total i speak 3 languages and looking to learn a fourth one.
no excuse.
im both french and english, but i love english so much more. i express myself much better with it. english is also a universal language. it really good to know how to speak it.
yet, i understand the resistance to keep french alive in quebec. it makes us so much more different then the rest of canada. 
i went to english school, but work in construction. so my friend circle is 50/50 french. my french friends are the fucking shit. whenever i need help with something, they are always there. 
it could have been 2 years without contact, but always happy to get news from me. 
quebec isn't a province, its a home. the people are strong and heavy hearted. 
if you don't speak french, at least try. i mean, if you decided to live in russia, you gotta speak russian. the same would go for italy or ireland.
i really loved quebec, its culture, and its people. i always will. i moved there with the intention to learn french and failed miserably. something about the way my brain works means it struggled to pick up even english as a kid. i was very sad when i admit to myself that i’d probably never pick up french enough to make a comfortable life and that i had to leave.
but...but why?
no cross post game on metacanada
it's very mysteries (i speak a little french)
jes said
jj mccullough moment
i hope that immigrants like me are not nervous 😅
[removed]
i did it all for the cheap hotdogs.
simple but perfect. excellent.
opinion: ontario and bri ish colombia must change their flag
my parents chose canada because my dad's french was much stronger than his english. we ended up in ottawa-hull, and lived in both sides of border. i live in montreal now. for an allophone like me who is trilingual, i don't see the fuss about being bilingual. it's all about perspective. and being born in europe, quebec has the closest culture in the americas to european, so i am the most at home here. je me souviens.
take my high-vote hunk that you are
remember that there are many of us who are english speaking, but have been here for tens / hundreds of years / generations.
i don't know how these people who don't speak french (and refuse to learn it) are able to live here. it s too difficult. even in montreal, everything is in french except the english-speaking university districts where english is spoken and that is just in montreal.
it's crazy! there are also those who were born in quebec (at least in montreal) who have lived their entire lives without learning to speak french. this is too much for my immigrant head who needed to learn to speak and write languages that are not spoken in my country of origin.
in addition, it's right here in montreal where you can go to an establishment and speak in english that people will answer and serve you in english. around concordia university, if you go to some place to eat, 80% of the staff working there does not speak a single word of french. but if you go to toronto, there is only one person who will serve you in french or an establishment where the employees can speak only in french. this is ridiculous. quebec respects the bilingualism pact but the rest of the country does not care.
surely quebec is still francophone, but at this rate, francophones will be minorities even here.
hello hi
my american friend is a québécois-otaku, but he has misery with his tongue. he's been trying to talk, learn ... for 5 years still in misery. come even loves to say "convenience store" ...
i have lived in ice for 15 years and i am american and i speak french like a mustard box, but people answer me in english every other time outside of montreal.
i am a third-generation anglophone montréalais, i have learned to be *almost* bilingual during my lifetime of 23 years living nowhere but here. not for lack of trying, please don't get me wrong. but learning french is hard, learning the way that québecois speak typically french is *even harder.* 
as a member of the english speaking community, i feel like the english speakers who chose to stay here since the 1970s, after the massive departure of the rich english speakers, made a good, good effort to learn french well. many of my english-speaking compatriots are completely bilingual.
as for people like me, who have not reached complete bilingualism yet, but intends to, i can probably speak for most unilingual anglophones when i say that an extremely common experience we have is attempting to speak to francophones in french only for them to speak back to us in english. this happens *all the time* to anglophones. whether native to quebec or not. it makes us extremely self-conscious of even trying to speak french.
i have friends here who come from other provinces and they really have an interest in learning the language and participating in the culture, but it seems that quebecers are so separated in their own world, that could be so intimidating for someone who is an anglophone quebecer or for someone who is not from quebec by all. but that does not mean that there are not the english speakers who move here who make a good effort to learn french and who succeed in learning. i have a friend from vancouver who lived here 4 or 5 years ago and he speaks almost as well as me who comes from here.
that being said, if someone from out of province wants to move to montreal and live in ndg and attend concordia or mcgill, or live in lennoxville and attend bishop's they are perfectly in their right to do so, even if they have no intention of learning french. there are plenty of reasons to move to this wonderful province besides language. why must we dilute the rich and complex identity of quebec down to a single factor of language?  
the english speaking community in quebec is unique and it is worth being a part of. obviously i'm speaking from a montrealer's point of view but just as quebec is distinct in canada, montreal is distinct in quebec (in my own opinion, but many montrealers share this view) and a lot of the reason for that remains with the historic english-speaking community, britons, scots, jews, irish women, indigenous mohawk, trilingual italians.
these communities built montreal into *the metropolis* of canada, and it is still the beating heart of québec. only to see them flee in droves starting in the 1970s to go enrich toronto, calgary and vancouver. there are impressive french immersion programs that exist outside of québec, they appear to be far more effective at teaching kids french than the english school boards in quebec have been. so, if governments in english canada can muster the resources to produce effective french immersion, why can't the québec government, which is so paranoid about the state of french here, allocate the required resources to english school boards to deliver effective french immersion? 
i feel like there is always a disconnection between the wishes of francophones for anglophones to learn french, and the actions of the provincial government which still continues to withdraw resources from anglo institutions for fear that we will re-anglicize quebec. . but it will never pass! bill 101 did, then continues to do his job!
so, as an anglophone i mean this: if we are * still * in quebec, that means that we * want * to be here and we want to learn french! just give us the resources to do so !!
(also, speak french to us when we speak in french, how can we be chastisted for not speaking french when no francophones want to speak french to us)?
loooolll so true
lol yah
stacose there are many job opportunities in montreal and mcgill university teaches courses in english.
the answer is poutine!
see the line in front of the ice cream!
really, it's the flag of montreal ...... just sayin '
i love french, i speak english, mandarin, cantonese and japanese but french is my favorite language.
>anglo-saxon
> british columbia
choose one
it's the opposite of “you're going to like that cancun, we met 15 manon pi 40 jean-francois, let her grow!”
[deleted]
when i try to speak french i am told to stop trying
but you can afford houses there.
yes, this attitude will definitely motivate us to learn french
because it's surprisingly still purchasable at the moment.
quebec still has a low cost of living
i mean feel free to get back to circle-jerking, but is it that weird an anglophone would move to a province with around a million other anglophones living in it, almost all of whom are concentrated in one city where there’s a centuries old community?
i think we’re more in the realm of an italian moving to switzerland, or a german speaker to belgium, or a swedish speaker to finland.
yes, why learn french when most french speakers i speak to speak english anyways?
anglo here who worked very hard to learn oral french after taking 6 nighttime french classes (writing french is still a challenge, so apologies in advance). 
i think everyone should try and learn french. but i will admit, it is a difficult language to pick up if not immersed in it. 
i wish there wasn't so much hostility towards learning it by anglos, or from francophones towards those who struggle to learn it and act resistant to it.
if we encouraged it with incentives, instead of punishment, it would be beneficial to all.
montreal is a truely bilingual city, and i don't think trying to fight the english use by forcing french onto people in a hostile way or by the english trying to fight everything french will strengthen our beautiful city.  
we should try and work together and accept that the biggest economy in the province in a country that is predominantly english and a province that is predominantly french is going to be mixed and not please everyone. both languages are ingrained in the city and will be here to stay. some parts of the city are english, some are french. i see that as part of the  beauty of montreal.
can we just agree that bonjour hi is not the enemy and is a saying that all montrealers actually are passionate about? i will continue to use it. 
if we can't get along there will be continued animosity of both cultures. i'm sick and tired of this fight. let's focus on something else like the goddamn construction.
yes, but they are expats, it does not matter, they are everywhere in big cities and communities. we must welcome, it is not threatening.
i love the saints. go drew beeze
generalization not by little ready that.
[deleted]
newsflash: it’s not a requisite to speak french in quebec. never has been and never will be.
you forgot "it's the vaccinated people who spread the covid". not bad the one i read the most these days.
there was a “vaccine shedding” fashion where the world believed that if you were near a vaccinee, you would get sick from the emanations they caused.
big fucking nonsense!
ironic en masse that those who say that we are part of the sheep pack are the first to follow each other and take dewormers for cattle!
you forgot a few, eg: vaccine makes magnetic; the vaccine scares your soul; the vaccine changes your dna; and so on.
[removed]
"just the flu bro" has been a while since i read this one.
stolen elsewhere, but she made me spit out my coffee in the morning laughing
with this new drug, the expression "beast to eat hay" takes on its full meaning.
in the battle between humans and the covid, these people chose the covid team
now they claim they are looking for invermectin meant for humans, not livestock.....
i love this one!
very funny
it is pitiful to see these people paint themselves a false reality.
sad to be born in the information age to wear with fingers but to be more misinformed than our ancestors about the spanish flu. owed for a nasty blow of natural selection
darwin was right.
all of the same, 10/10.
is "de-wormer" vermisol? i remember often hearing that many people cut coke with vermisol ... maybe just an urban legend too.
the ** great reset ** ?? so let's see, what is this? a reminiscence of that old concept of * "too many people, it would take a good war to settle this" * in a viral sauce?
covid 19 is a coronavirus the same type of virus as the common cold or the common flu
so calling covid 19 a flu is valid albeit a dangerous flu
is this sub full of caq government employees or what?
read if you can
[ivermectin ](
read it all, see how safe it is and who it was developed for, scroll down to near bottom if you can’t be bothered to read it all, see it’s multifuncional use including as an antiviral.  maybe before looking like a fool and repeating false information you hear on the internet do a little research first because you’re the only one here that looks like a clown.
[deleted]
* sigh * the "livestock de-wormer" is incorrect as a designation. it's a bogus name coming from a questionable press article.
ivermectin is an antiparasitic agent approved for use in ** humans ** by the fda and who for decades. it's on fucking wikipedia, do your research, cuddle ...
usual circlejerk, come back to
first one is legit fact so really this meme is pathetic
hahahahaha they are so cellar! check out this facebook meme i'm sharing on reddit!
the real clowns are those calling ivermectin "livestock dewormer"
ivermectin has been used in humans since 1988 and is a common anti-parasitic.
"ivermectin was discovered in 1975 and came into medical use in 1981.[14][15] it is on the world health organization's list of essential medicines.[16] ivermectin is fda-approved as an antiparasitic agent.[17] in 2018, it was the 420th most commonly prescribed medication in the united states, with more than one hundred thousand prescriptions.[18]"
japan recommends ivermectin for treating infections. is the chairman of the tokyo medical association a clown or big pharma doing everything possible to sell as much vaccine as possible?
india has seen its severe cases of covid melt away with the use of ivermectin.
it's crazy what we learn at the "university of life"!
the thing is, it's a half truth.
unlike many vaccines, the covid vaccine does not have a zero chance of knocking it down.
but if you get him vaccinated, you're like 100x more likely that his is just a good flu and you don't live in a hospital bed / be disabled.
right now the 15% of the unvaccinated are roughly 95% of the world in hospitals with covid. (i would have to find the exact stats but it looks like this.)
edit: it's more around 10x less. [
if we look at 100k pop. the incidence of infections in the emergency room is 1 for the vaccinated, 10 for the unvaccinated. admissions follow this same trend.
the logic behind this is that the vaccine does not protect 100%, you can still get sick and then transmit the virus.
vaccinated people no longer really have any restrictions, will go to restaurants, to events, etc., and yes there will be infections and transmission from these people even if they are vaccinated. compared to the unvaccinated guy who is banned from everything, who will stay at home and who will not infect anyone.
so ... the premise still makes sense.
where it gets out of hand is that they would like vaccinated people to be more careful and that we close access to restaurants, etc., to them too? it's so ironic, coming from the group of people who have been complaining from the start that we shouldn't have any measures and that we live in a dictatorship.
correct me if i'm wrong, but the argument is that vaccinating them is as contagious as people who have covid. like "since you are vaccinated you are more careful so you probably have covid pi you are contagious."
it seems to me that if you are vaccinated you are less contagious and for a shorter period as well ... but i admit that it is not my field and that i know too well what are true or stories.
emanations ?! kind like the ether theory a few centuries ago ?? : d
prepare for your 10th booster.
wait, did you really happen that a cellar group did that?
ivermectin has also been used in humans for 40 years. it's like saying that tylenol is a dog medicine since vets use it on dogs.
take tylenol pu! this is for cattle, this medicine there!
i think the "makes magnetic" one of my favorite lol. it is so stupid and so easily verifiable as false.
> the vaccine scares your soul
i wonder what happens if you are red and you get the vaccine in this case 🤔
do not forget the 5g that we are injected!
~~ (by the way, i'm still waiting for my personalized messages from bill gates) ~~
i have been squealing at good 5g reception since ...
personally, i have received the 5g in my hollow tooth so much better since my vaccine.
> scare away your soul
joke's on you, i don't have any.
it's true that it changes your dna btw
man,
as much as it is sad as much as it is revealing
its a liberul conspiracy!!!
gotta love self inflicted natural selection
serious, there is not an admin who will intervene in this thread ?????? wtf
what the fuck?
every time an antivax dies i cum !! big criss of / s! go get treatment, the sociopath!
there are still people on the subreddit trying to make us believe this one.
once vaccinated, the risk of complications appears to be in the same order of magnitude as with seasonal flu.
overall the risk of death was estimated at around 5-10x that of influenza, which varies according to age groups, but vaccination reduces the risk of having a severe form of covid by nearly 20x. these are very approximate figures based on what i remember from the various articles read, i have no source that i can cite and it probably did not take into account the variants.
this does not take into account the higher contagiousness which means that a similar individual risk can still overload the health system if the number of simultaneous infections is higher than the seasonal flu, in addition to often longer hospitalizations.
technically, covid is worse than influenza right now, but a lot less worse than it was when it first emerged in 1918. i guess you can see that as encouraging for the future.
baby it's lockdown outside
on a more serious note, the context of the pandemic has exacerbated violence against women.
true shitpost 8:01 it is in the morning she can cringe
if it could help someone, the police are informed and will act to help victims of domestic violence according to my contact in domestic violence intervention. so don't hesitate to leave a dangerous situation during containment if necessary: the resources are there at all times.
now the game begins
funny 😅
i hope that norman love will release a record that talks about the covid
lockdown=pants down babe, ha...
shit post? nah, i found it really fun, actually; almost wholesome, nothing earth-shattering, but an easy laugh.
7.5-8/10, for me, i actually laughed out loud pour le vrai for a second.
tl;dr: not a shit post if you're high as fuck, in my experience .ymmv
té in marde asti 😂
i feel bad for you people in quebec because you have the curfew ...
sincerely, someone from 🇺🇸
i was about to make a quip before seeing your post, but yeah...peut-etre pas...
20h01 time !!!
i saw this happening on facebook a few minutes ago.
women's shelter 
the contact-elles crisis line number: 438-522-9264
email: contactelles@ladauphinelle.org
do we tell him?
ah, okay, we have fewer cases. and you have trump. it evens out.
you've got a lot bigger than a curfew right now. i feel bad for you americans. sincerely, a quebecer ☃️
lol, you can talk, your capitol has just been attacked by a gang of savages who put even more covid
[deleted]
*doubt*
* 1000 deaths per 1 million people compared to 1100 for the us
should have put a poutine emoji ... ah well tabarnaque it does not exist, well first that 🇲🇶, it looks like the quebec flags, but with snakes, it is even cooler
worse i guess i should worry more
it is normand l'amour, the minstrel of madrid, who died. normand d'amour, the actor, was still in good shape according to the latest news.
[deleted]
as if that was the only negative point of the us.
we really are a republic of bananas
the trifecta of
\ - all closed, 0 fun and freedom
\ - economy in the shit
\ - full of deaths
normally it's pick 1 or 2
haha, i didn't look for a long time, i didn't know this emoticon there
disturbed people who attack everything vs ... oh yes, a little curfew for 4 weeks.
yes, you should worry more, i guarantee that we don't have such big problems
no, it talks about the singer normand l'amour, he died in 2015
not by much.
it's “never two without three” anymore. before "full of deaths" the economies do not close.
yeah, me neither, i was looking for quebec, but apparently martinique c closest, pi honestly on a cell screen we can not see the difference lol
we don't have such big citizens either
maybe baz4k6z hopes that normand d'amour, the actor who played jean-luc de vries in ruptures, will release a record that talks about covid for real, notice.
i met him by chance and it purified my soul to my friend and to me, also blessed my ford tempo 93!
the dead are almost exclusively retirees so no, the dead shouldn't affect the economy.
haha, we still have big fat, but sure, our nation is healthier in this terms than the usa
i mean, the government is not shutting down the economy unless there are already deaths.
babar c my boyfriend.
at the same time as scrooge, arriving from school and inspector gadget at supper.
raccoon friends
in elementary school, the elephant in the notebook was memo, not babar.
worse the barbapapas.
is that i found it boring babar.
i liked rupert or teddy ruxpin better.
do you remember: the wind in the willows? osti that it was depressing.
big party for people + - 30/35 years old here!
i still have a big babar doggie! 🐘
i even had the perfume. i loved babar
the rhinoceros osties 😂🤣
did anyone have the vhs of the film with babar as a child who fought against rataxès with celeste and zéphyr? he was the one who told this story to his children in the film. it was one of my favorite films as a kid, and i kept it hoping one day i could convert it to digital, because the translation is different in france.
i remember ratacsesse the bad rhino. i have always laughed at the name and never heard anyone wear it.
with zéphir the monkey it seems to me
as the philosopher and intellectual fred du grenier said: "babars is an african dictator who married his cousin wesh".
did you realize that he married his cousin, celeste?
there are a lot of shows that came out here: babar, les aventure de teddy ruxpin (wow, nice memory that), les amis ratons, ernest the vampire.
a show that i really didn't like but which seemed to go on all the time, cocotte minute, do you mean something to someone? there was also a character in there who lived in a sort of seedy bubbling pond. they were puppets i think.
but in the good shows there was one that a bear (not teddy ruxpin), it was a young polar bear with a scarf around his neck that was traveling in some kind of blimp? edit: i'm getting involved here, it's teddy ruxpin who was traveling in an airship ... i have rupert the bear in my head but it gives me an animated series, that's not what i'm talking about ... edit2 : wasn't that bear a prince?
anyway, beautiful nostalgia this morning !!
eille le chat, it's not a sofa, made of air.
i remember listening to babar before going to kindergarten, when it was half a day a day
this is the name of my loxodon paladin 😄
by my defenses! babar is a classic from canal famille.
there is besides [the official channel of babar] ( on dailymotion, if you can support the commercials and the dubious generic music ...... those of my youth were a lot smoother than these versions. the rest, however, seems the same.
i had a kick on the little old lady
memo [ marge(
babar [
we are not mistaken.
hey luis, i'm an elephant now
me!! :)
babar king of snuffleupuses
he had a babaryton voice.
i found the perfect sweater for you
my bab!
my classic [babar and santa claus] (
“i'm learning to read with babar” - vincent from radio-enfer
another shot of old ...
for me, babar was not a cartoon.
i grew up with this female dog kid but he was so boring! 😞
i wanted to read the book to my daughter, but it starts by killing his whole family and he is going to live with a sugar mama in town ... i quickly closed the book ...
yep vive babar.
tied with teddy ruxpin and les petits malins.
i remember a nightmare i had as a child when he and his family lost their minds.
such! it started in the thirties, so we are surely a big gang.
i grew up watching babar on tv and i didn't even grow up in canada.
oh yes, the elephant man is pretty good looking that i remember
babar !!!
it's a cartoon i'm sure everyone was watching but no one at school was talking about it. anyway in my end it was like that
i didn't understand the title, but i remember that cartoon.
the greatest dictator of all time
rhitaxous?
not on the same side of the atlantic but when i was a kid that was apparently the only thing that managed to calm me down when my mom left for work.
it's my time, but i never could endure it.
mei
me, a little bit. (+ the series in 3d) it includes the prequel film.
i remember going to the cinema to see the movie!
aka who was born between 1982 and 1990.
we are not saints, but we are not more racist than other places i find. like everyone else, our less educated and older are often the most intolerant.
it is true that on the quebec reddit there is no bashing of english canada.
as a quebecker who lives in the region ... we are a bit racist.
as some have said, i don't think quebeckers are necessarily more racist than others, but it's the level of contact with the rest of the world that makes the difference.
i am a healthcare professional in montreal and plan to stay there for the rest of my life. i love this city and the people who are part of it. however, during the 4 years that i did my doctoral studies in quebec (ulaval), i have never suffered so much racism. patients who tell me to leave the country, others who tell me that there are too many immigrants in quebec (although i am the only one of my race in my cohort), teachers who make insensitive jokes, people who insult me about my origins when i try to sell a microwave on kijiji ... i have always tried to make my culture better known to my patients, but it really does not work at all blows.
personally, i think the difference is a bit in the language. really not to lower french, it's just that it's less international than english. considering the number of foreign stars who speak english and the amount of content there is on social media, it's 1000x easier for an english speaker to expose themselves to other cultures. for francophones, the media are somewhat limited with french, quebec and sometimes african works. so someone who just stays in chibougamau has almost no chance of exposing himself to the multiculturalism of a metropolis. so he either popularizes french across the country or better represents minorities in the quebec media!
me as a western canadian, scrolling through the comments as if i can read them: 🧐
[deleted]
i was born and raised in mexico.
while working in a call center for 5 years in a renowned bank, i experienced racism thoroughly with the people who call to give up. from my experience in the center living it myself and hearing the stories of colleagues, i can confirm that canada is racist in tbk. no less racist than quebec.
apart from that, the people with whom i spoke and known, i love both but my heart is quebecois because quebec is not perfect, there are many beautiful things and i felt very welcome despite the experience in the call center.
i grew up in an environment where you have to "grow some balls" so racist comments slip on my skin and i take it with the humor. i also learned to make stereotypical comments towards my quebecois friends as a joke without ever falling into aggression.
in summary, the anglo side is also racist and makes me laugh when they report quebec by default each time as if they were saints.
there is a kind of feeling of superiority among english canadians who believe they are more open to the world because their language is more common. they think they are in a position to explain how things work to francophones who according to them are unilingual and only live in the quebec bubble
damn are people getting downvoted for speaking english
okay, i'm saving this.
what i find funny about all of this is how much the average french-speaking quebecer gets stuck with the opinion of english-speaking people.
ask someone in the street "what do you think about the fact that english speakers say we are racist?" and there's a good chance he'll say "they say that?"
irony, lolll
the north shore still calls asians chinetok, browns for arabs, amerindians for kawish and blacks for n…
all that is not white is “them”.
worse, i'm not talking about a 60-year-old, they are people in their thirties.
75% of the ** area of quebec ** is occupied by a generation of racists who still use shocking words to designate ethnic groups.
do not come and tell me that there is not yet a good part of quebec that is not.
obviously in the cities south of the saguenay it's less worse, but you have to be aware of what is happening in the region.
am i the only one who thought this was legault and was gonna be about legault being a racist out of touch pos lmao
me 61 and lived in quebec for the last 40. i have learned the language of my grandfather and mother from montreal and half of my father from grandfalls, nb, after being english schooled for first 20. lived in all provinces pretty well. only french quebecers say le quebec is not racist. it is not a province which is racist, it is a racist person who is racist. no more no less. i have known a lot of friends who ended up being racist towards me because they believed a manipulator. so it's not a province or a certain language or certain communities that are racist. it is a racist person that is racist. la belle province du quebec is not racist, but there are racist people, who are racist like all other racist people, regardless of their place of residence. i am perfectly almost bilingual today, cause i learnt my french, because i wanted to know it. not because somebody wants to shove it down my throat. i learned it cause i wanted too. not for you, for me. when you are bilingual, it's like walking on the fence, and you don't have any more preferred side. languages for me are like songs, and i love music. i didn't do it for rene or you. for me. i am not a unilingual linguistic. i am me.
the greater montreal and national capital contain the majority of the population of quebec to say that quebec is racisite it makes little sense when we look at the demography of our province
people are the same all over the world. if you are good to them, they will be good to you.
as an english speaking canadian, this is my proposal for migrating to canada, what do you think:
anyone in the world from any nationality may come to canada if they:
-pass english or french competency test. must pass with high level speaking/writing. 7/10 or better
- must have no criminal records.
hear me out
they then will get a provisional visa. 5 years, under which they must:
-work and generate at least $60,000 a year and pay the corresponding taxes.
if they don’t work the visa is cancelled they would need to go
- must not commit any crime. they commit any they would need to face justice, visa cancelled and then go home.
-must pass canadian values course. 6 months at university.  if they do not pass they cannot stay.
after this 5 years probation they may be eligible to apply for permanent residency.
luckily for me it’s in english
oh come on, french people are nice.
tbh, the reverse criticism is just as valid. there are posts here that reek of the victimization complex.
as a franco-ontarian, i do not believe that quebeckers are more racist than any other part of the country.
but your province literally has a law (law 21) designed to discriminate against those with religious beliefs that require the wearing of a specific object (kirpan, turban, etc.) if they want to work as public servants (and this law does not affect christians, since there is no obligation to carry a crucifix).
i believe this law is probably one of the main reasons why so many people think quebec is racist.
cursed english here. i don't think québécois are inherently racist.
most of this “québec is racist” talk probably comes from bill 21, which i personally find objectionable, but not necessarily racist. it’s discriminatory because it violates a public service worker’s right to freedom of religious expression. this doesn’t mean that all québécois are racist; it means the provincial government passed a discriminatory law, and should be criticized. big difference.
its not hard to figure out.
if you prejudge someone based on their appearance or language or any other superficial aspect of their existence... you are a bigot. there, solved.
edit: did you downvoted because you disagree with my definition or because you love bigotry?
les québécois are not necessarily more racist than others, but they are racist and refuse to admit it, they are in total denial and pretend it's 'secularism' or protection of our culture and 'values' when it so obviously is not. it's just an excuse to avoid confronting our racism. and that's why we get called racist, because *we refuse to actually address it*. we've normalised racism to the point where we feel attacked when we called out for racism. (and i'm saying this as une québécoise).
i like it: we are not more racist than elsewhere
hahaha
hellllooooo
[can we still say that? lol] (
it's true.
[removed]
it’s the headscarf law guys.
that’s the one.
yeah i grew up english in quebec, for over 20 years, cry me a river
i grew up getting picked on by french kids, my middle school was all held in after hours because the french high school kids lined up along the property line to beat any anglo that tried to pass. 
i didn’t pick a side i was told i was on one
published in the press two days ago, i leave this [link] ( -have-a-reason.php) here.
all canadians are racist to other canadians tbh
i mean, if quebec culture is so fragile that turbans, hijabs, etc are a threat to quebec culture then there's something fundamentally wrong with quebec culture.
i’ve been to quebec twice, both times i went to quebec i was publicly shamed by a quebecer because my french was not “proper”. sorry i was born in ontario?
it’s the truth
victim syndrome is strong these days!
yes yes wand
as a canadian iv never been blessed with a nice quebecer yet 😂
what's the difference between quebec and a ham sandwich?
nothing they are both white and racist.
ok silly  🥐🥐🥐 croissant-men 🥐🥐🥐
keep malding
everyone around me says i'm a racist ... no, it's other people who are racists!
-quebec, probably
my father is native. can confirm there are a lot of quebecois who treated me as if i came from kek somewhere else. quebecers have been through shit but they also have to give shit. so enough its toer to be a minority in a minority where you are forced to speak french even though the rest of your native nation speaks english in the rest of the country. good luck meeting your cousins when you don't speak english. why force us to speak tabarnak french? entk i love you the same and the more we talk about it the more it will improve.
i don't think quebec is more or less racist than the rest of canada, but it's tiring to see quebec nationalists claim that racism doesn't exist in quebec and that it's just an invention of the roc to make quebec bashing. it's no better than those like prof attaran who claims that quebec is a backward province more racist than the southern united states under jim crow's laws.
what you say makes sense. but i would also go so far as to say that it is not necessarily intolerance for some, just "not used to seeing a black person in real life in saint-ephrem-de-beauce", in the same way as a white man. probably clashing in downtown tokyo, or someone with candy pink hair in a law firm.
ark r / npd ajd. for them religion = race.
nobody talks about culture and cultural differences though. there is frankly a lack of sociological voices in the world
racism is the same in quebec as in the rest of canada. residents of big cities are exposed to each other and respect each other.
people in rural areas are homogeneous and distrust those with other cultural identities. we are not homohically quebecois. we are all different types of quebecers.
we are the same racist way as alberta. but i'm sure most of the other provinces are more open to the views of outsiders.
yes yes wand
my french blonde: "where is it (town where i don't know the exact location)?"
me (without checking): "uh ... it's in the corner of montreal"
success rate around 80%.
and the regions see montreal as the robocop strait.
explain to my family that it takes less time to go to quebec than to see my cousin who also lives in the greater montreal area as described on your map, when you take into account the time of departure, the construction and all the kit! 😱
[deleted]
2008 i arrive in quebec.
\ -yeah fak come from which corner?
\ -saint-lazare is next to vaudreuil.
\-where?
\ -you show him on your iphone 3g which lags like criss
\ -ahhhhhhhhhh montreal ok.
and it's still like that in 2021 when i tell someone about the place where my family lives in quebec ...
gatineau?! 
# montreal region!
a member of the family who lives in the gaspé once told me that it was fun in montreal because everything was close. he was going to bromont!
when i go to quebec or in beauce and that i meet a new person: a aah i have family / friends in montreal!
me: oh yeah what neighborhood?
them: saint-hyacinte
....
[deleted]
as an abitibien, montreal is divided like this: to the west there is outaouais / ontario. in the south the us. to the east, quebec. all that has inside that is montreal.
i have a friend who grew up in saint-hyacinthe, and she told me that when she moved to quebec she learned to keep quiet about her origin because the world treated her less well if they knew she was from "montreal" . so silly
hahaha rawdon
man drummondville is on the edge of montreal for me
the cmm goes from saint-jean to mirabel.
saguenay lac-saint-jean for the montreal world is all the same thing. saint-félicien is right next to chicoutimi. hahaha
listen ... there's a movie with angelina joli that shows the chateau frontenac with "montreal, quebec" as an indication ...
me in my version of this shitpost i would put that all that is outside of montreal are the "regions".
anecdote of the day when i began to have contempt for the world of quebec:
i worked in a restaurant when i was 19. one of the waitresses was from quebec and had a visiting friend who came to see her on our station wagon.
the said citizen of quebec city released an expression that i did not really understand. i ask him what that means. here is our discussion after the said question.
• ah, you come from montreal, you can't understand ...
• eh? we are not in montreal, we are in the montérégie suburbs and it takes 30-40 minutes to get to montreal from here ....
• ah but it's the same thing
• um? not at all? what is this statement?
• do you people in montreal think you are better than everyone else 😂
• wtf arrogance, not my fault if your geography of quebec is so bad that as soon as you pass lévis or pont-rouge you are automatically in montreal ...
nothing i say is made up, it is 100% the words used in the argument.
not just quebec. in the region you can also see that
this is more accurate than what i have seen here lately. you really have to be from outside montreal to say that these are all montreal-centrists who live in montreal.
farmpoint
if the cmm people stopped saying "i'm from montreal" when they leave the region, that might also help hahaha
montreal = where you wait more than 15 minutes in traffic.
is it west of trois-rivières?
yes: montreal
no: in the region
the most beautiful neighborhood in montreal is rawdon
what is supposed to be something other than montreal
same when montrealers confuse lac st jean and saguenay
i've lived in montreal for 3 and a half years and that's still how i see it. (i come from quebec.)
me, who comes from rimouski, i remember saying to a lady from deux-montagnes “montreal” when talking about her city. lord, i've never seen someone so insulted.
if we are talking about inflated housing prices, the arrows are very precise
i have been working on the road for at least 10 years and i have a fairly clear definition of "metropolitan montreal"
to the south it stops at valleyfield, st jean sur richelieu, granby, saint hyacinthe and sorel
to the west, it is quite the ontario border that marks the limit
to the east is joliette
and in the north it is st-jerome
otherwise i calculate 45 minutes by tank in any direction from the intersection of highways 15/40 in montreal
mourreal
went to cegep in sherbrooke, i come from rawdon.
i was the guy from montreal.
lol, i like how one arrow points on the ontario side 😂
i am not from montreal. i have lived for a few years and a few times in montreal and i found it to be correct, but when you get used to drinking non-chlorinated water it is quite out of tune when you come back to it.
honestly, being from the bottom of the bottom of the river everything that is within a radius of 2 hours is considered neighbor or it is the same area. so i understand the mentality of considering that everything is montreal in this corner and we are talking about a radius of barely 1h30. i myself am the same. when we are told "ah, we are 3 hours away" we immediately say to ourselves by reflex "ah crime we are next haha"! i think it depends on where the people come from.
montreal majority
okay the red dot in st-eugène, on it's just hilarious. they speak solid french over there but you shouldn't overdo it anyway!
there are people who live like “sainte pistache, swear words” and say “montreal”
right in that!
i never understood why the people of saint-julie say they live in montreal!
i come from the north shore, when we were young, the people of montreal, that impressed us!
yo the west island, ain't lancaster and cornwall?
everything that exists between trois-rivières and gatineau is called montreal
i think the lesson in all of this is that the world is rotten in geography haha
how quebec will become a country if the world at the bottom of the river are the same.
i see no difference it's marked montreal everywhere
weak point: too strong
oh no, i was talking about st-bruno de montarville ...
laval: northern montreal
brossard: southern montreal
mont-tremblant: hilly montreal
quebec city: little montreal
well, i know what to take: "plate"
engagement wayne !
what i find striking is the fountain ... in the background even parked at his home he does not respect the distance
seems to me i have already seen this car in gatineau
i would love to upvote more than once.
it's excellent.
remark
i guarantee the owner is learning french. at my cousin's there are lots of labels like that with the names of the businesses marked in german. it's marked "der kühlschrank" on his fridge ...
roof for the second tank and wing for the third
is he a political cartoonist?
subtitles spill over into real life
r/techniquementlaverite
car
he is not wrong!
my tank plate ended with car
water
nice
revolvoiture ocelot
it engages in criss all that
lol
monauto
i had already seen "pickup 2" on a pickup in laval, i wonder what happened to the first iteration
a bit of a lie, it's a mitsubishi.
r / skamtebord frança!
or take "null". and if the saaq agent is stupid enough, you're going to be able to destroy databases. (null means empty)
char available?
why pay for it?
at this point the guy just wanted to donate $ 300 to the government. it's not even funny, he should have bought $ 300 from 6/49.
i saw him parked on decarie boulevard
it's already taken;)
unnamed ^ md
engaagemee-eent
i came in the comments just to write engagement! i'm not the only one who says commitment when he hears car, even after thirty years.
fun fact: it was on this car that stacy tumbled down with her bike.
y'a ldoua
bingo
maybe in the plateau? 😅
replica
bad idea
a dentist ?
engagement-ent !
the same
hi wayne ..... hi ..... bang!
haha yes.
reason # 14 for not having a funny personalized plaque: not to see your house end up on the internet.
reply to reply
oh yeah.
take your upvote, but i'm angry
hi wayne! * crash *
lol. i never thought i would see this at # 1 on r / quebec
r / posivotefache
i was amazed to see how the people who work in the vaccination centers are nice, even smiling! not surprised to see that a nurse added this little attention !!
take a nap. kiss his sister on the mouth.
check the full with its accommodation and its balcony
go out with
fuck that's exactly what i did after my shot. i won't get 5g.
do not do dishes of the household read a book on the balconey???? what the heck im confused
nurse guay is the best!
me, she gave me a number but i dare not call her. i'm afraid it's cra.
ask this woman in marriage
[deleted]
it's excellent
i noticed that too, and i have my little 2 cent theory: i have several friends-acquaintances who have enlisted to do it. most of them are health professionals (physios, nurses, doctors, dentists and hygienists).
* it's fundamentally good people, lawful or neutral good kind who took their time from their often more profitable job to go and get vaccinated.
* it's an environment that is often 10x less stressful than their usual job.
* they are sick and tired of seeing the impact of the pandemic and they finally have the chance to do their part ^ tm to return to some semblance of normalcy.
the fact of bringing together all these beautiful people for a very positive purpose, i understand indeed that it must release a super pleasant energy and be felt by the person going to be vaccinated.
all the more so since seriously, the work environment at the stadium is really ugly, let's face it: concrete surrounded by concrete, decorated with concrete. can't you see outside, it takes a 10-minute walk to get some fresh air.
hats off and thank you to all these people!
i work in a vaccination center and i am a student. it pays really well and everyone is really happy to be there because they are there on a voluntary basis. also it's not stressful vrm and it's good to see the world!
my mother is a little late and very, very anxious. the day of her appointment she got lost and had a big anxiety attack. she managed to make it but was in all its forms!
the nurses immediately took care of her, looked for a wheelchair for her and a lady stayed with her to reassure her during the waiting period, the vaccination and accompanied her until the exit.
really great service!
yes indeed it was extremely well done in quebec in the center at the university
sweet home alabama
françoisl is that you?
especially since mom and dad are not at home
worse his book!
it is prohibited by his professional order.
if you are on your balcony, you expose yourself directly to 5g (and pedos-satanic chemtrails).
fuck it's
" copies the word above it
also ménage here does not mean household but tidying (as in "faire le ménage" =clean the house). so it's: no doing the dishes, no cleaning anything, read a book outside.
the internet is a small town.
worse, she is not badly "sexed baby" in her lab coat! ;-)
surely the number of your new 5g / s chip
pretty sure you can read any book on a balcony or anywhere. no difference. but if the weather is nice, don't forget the sunscreen!
i put my two cents in the pot.
i must be in the well advanced 4 digits for the number of noses i tested. it whines, it complains, it grumbles and ... well ... yes, it's not a pleasant experience. if you do your sampling like the world, the first word that wants to come out of a patient is really not a thank you with a smile.
so what to vaccinate: the world arrives in a good mood. you ask your tites questions, you give your tite bite, the ti plaster and my raymond he is all smiles when he leaves.
when the working atmosphere is so warm, it results in warm employees.
> it's basically good people, lawful or neutral good kind
finally, behavioral descriptions that make sense!
currently vaccinators are paid more than our doctors 😅😭
it's boring to say, but in terms of physical location, the stadium is much better than the average for montreal hospitals.
roll tide!
you missed getting home before 9:30 p.m. for all your life
not even a book rented from the library
❤️💜🖤 thank you
interesting to see that the attitude of the patients has a lot to do with it too.
can we have this for call centres now? how about the guys serving food at burger king and épicerie too.
i'm pro the health care people. but can we please oh please fix this fuckiny province!
i just want us all to level up.
finally a parrralele between dungeon & dragon and the pandemic ⚔🛡🏹
wat.jpg
at least the stadium is not moldy! (i think.)
for that it's worth, the chum and the muhc are really wonderful.
for someone born in january 2021, you write well anyway! well done!
cursed bourgeoisie.
you never worked in customer service if you didn't know about it.
what's your point? people are eager to get vaccinated = in a good mood at the vaccination clinic = clinic workers are happy. you really can't compare patients/health professionals to employees in call centers that probably have to deal with a lot of yelling over the phone.
how about when they answer, your first sentence isn't complaining? i've had a ton of positive interactions with all of the people you mentioned, because i treated them like equal humans, not cheap workers or like a management team.
what happens when a vaccinator hits a critical hit?
ah apparently it's not the same in quebec? it's like that everywhere. in france there are plenty of doctors in criss because they are paid less. a friend in denmark makes $ 40 cad an hour and when he is at the weekend it's $ 56 an hour well at least almost half gets taxed so it's still $ 30 after taxes lol
min wage is around 20$ cad (it's all converted in cad  from krones to make it easier to understand)
am i the only one who thinks it could be a lot worse?
i know it is far from over, i hope that the vaccination will bring us back a little more freedom.
this summer will be a great summer.
"it was already bad"
i suffer from social anxiety. so last year was not that bad for me. rather like a long vacation.
"it's going to be okay" got so toxic. for me it almost became a new "go f * # k yourself".
mars 2020: spongebob rainbow
mars 2021: shang tsung friendship rainbow
lol it's so true
:)
for my part, things are going much better than last year. sorry.
do you realize that there are now 92 people in intensive care throughout quebec? what will it take to remove the curfew?
"everything is fine"
i'm starting to get pissed off
it will pass
"it was okay."
it's going to be fine hahahahahahahhahahahahahhahahshshahshshhshshshsshshshshshhshshshahhahahagaggaga
you're not alone ... i have the impression that air / quebec is really really fragile.
the post of the girl who has 4 friends with depression and 3 who have been into drugs got me off the hook.
in my entourage ... nobody thinks of suicide.
imagine today, but no vaccine yet discovered.
ouch.
it went really close to being really worse on top of that. i think there's a big part of the world that doesn't catch how lucky we were to be able to use sars research to develop the vaccine.
without that, it would take 3-4 years. we're not made any better at developing vaccines, we were just lucky and were able to use years of existing research.
vaccination is supposed to bring complete freedom (once the entire population has had access to the vaccine) or otherwise we will end up jamajs ...
this summer will be a summer.
can't be worst than the last one!
yes, only vaccinated boomers will have the right to leave their homes.
have no idea if it will be a good summer. it is a dangerous form of hope. how well gonna be. if we have learned one thing, it's that we really don't know when things are going to get better. i hope it will improve, but i do not submit to false hopes
if the danger of the deadly wasps in the usa were to spill over here, then i would take a little more containment in the summer. we don't have this problem in winter.
no it won't. stop repeating that empty sentence.
having a summer like summer 2020 is not a "beautiful summer"
to be honest yes, by june we will start to return to normal.
even if there will be someone left to be vaccinated.
(according to me)
gamers like that too, we can stay at home as a gamer without being judged haha
one of my friends is anxious has doubled with that, already before she was not at ease in a crowd, she has anxiety attacks when she sees that she will have to go out to buy milk
as i walked around, i thought it was nice to see posters at every 3/4 house, but i understand why they do it
friendship. friendship?! again?!
apparently this is enough to freeze quebec as a whole, compromise our health network (which costs us half of the province's budget) and justify all these absolutely ridiculous measures. don't let go, one last 2 week and one last effort and you will be released !!
you don't really know. i know a guy who committed suicide during the pandemic and no one saw it coming.
it's not written in the face of those around you if they are thinking about suicide.
for what it's worth, my sister was volunteering at suicide action and since the covid it got so intense that she quit. before she could do a little study between calls but this was non-stop, intense calls after intense calls.
we are also in the midst of the seasonal depression, but we must not decrease, it is difficult to know who is suicidal and who is not, especially in these more isolated times. i think people take advantage of this semi-anonymity to let off steam (on the sub).
without wanting to be insensitive, people have not experienced much in their life and it seems ... i think it is mostly people with a fragile state of mental health at the start for whom the pandemic has made things worse.
there is clearly some distress happening because of the whole situation, but there are also clearly some people who are using this as an easy excuse to push their point.
like ... yes the situation is boring ... but objectively it's really not that much worse.
i substantially agree with you. i am a very resilient person and even if the situation is pocket-friendly for everyone, i am fortunate not to have suffered.
on the other hand, you have to be careful, not everyone has this luxury ...
yes there are more fragile people but they did not choose to be harder hit!
but, or it's frustrating and where i understand your frustration is that these people there in distress are not able to analyze the situation in an objective way. all he sees is that the situation is fine without even realizing that it may be fine because of his same sanitary measures. it seems almost a paradox because the better things get thanks to measurement, the more people hate measurements and find them unnecessary.
the italians did not have the luxury to despise the measures. and i'm sure their situation was even harsher on their mental health. tse when there is both confinement and several people dying.
maybe we have to stop opposing sanity and confinement. the confinement is used not to be in a stressful screeching situation like in italy where a 3rd wave begins.
eventually, containment can be done by peers with mental health measures to alleviate. anyway, mental health problems don't date from the pandemic, it's time to address them like everyone else!
a friend of a friend committed suicide yesterday. he was in his early twenties and healthy, we had no warning signs and we had no idea that he needed help. there will be more needless death among the youth, people with their whole lives ahead of them instead of behind them, until this government-created situation ends. some people are concluding that this kind of life, this retarded world, is not worth it.
clearly there are yen who put in thick just to try to find reasons to push their conspiratorial agenda or just continue to complain about the legault administration ...
still ironic that one before i had quite a severe depression and at the moment i have never been so happy 😅
also, for mentally fragile people, it would probably have been even more anxiety-provoking for them if we had had the same situation as in italy for example!
personally, i would not be against certain measures remaining after the pandemic. like the mandatory disinfectant before going to the grocery store.
this summer will be.
last summer was not that bad actually, we had general freedom to go around to restaurants, peoples houses, even travel. i'm optimistic this summer can and will match last years, but i feel like 2021 spongebob right now too
that's a bold claim!
if the curfew spell can end up eventually, at least we can meet outside.
sorry ? wasps what?
apart from the lack of festivals and shows, last summer was quite a good summer in my opinion. i spent the summer in parks drinking beer with friends. in addition, the weather was really superb last summer. i don't really know what your definition of a great summer is.
major "it's okay go" vibe here lol.
i could embark on "it's going to be a summer like the other one before"
exactly.
his condition is worse than mine, according to your testimony. i sympathize with her. anxiety, what a plague.
same story: last year to convince my guy to go for a walk, i told him that i was going to give it a rainbow candy that he was going to see around the block ... yen saw like 25 🤦‍♂️
this meme must be 10 years old ......
this is old
metro supports local businesses 👌
i believe that metro has changed its card cards since time ...
as long as metro is mentioned here, let me tell you about a boycott campaign against them. details will lie elsewhere than here, but essentially the metro administration continues to invest millions in fossil fuels. entéka, boycott metro if you like it, thank you.
guilty of having already placed the same while waiting in line
r/theyknew
u / savevideo
that deserves a medal 🏅 for posting. well done.
karma bitch
the quality of the jpg which drops every time.
###[view link](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
what are you talking about
it's not a jpeg
i think he meant "karma whore". it's still funny to see someone screw up trying to insult.
you know your micro dose was too big when the jpegs get animated
[
ahhhhhhh okay yeah that would make more sense
single-use plastics from quebec ⚜️⚜️⚜️
tomatoes have adopted quebec values
it looks like the metro labels, it happens to mine all the time too.
it's not easy to grow tomatoes in qc with inflation, chemtrails and everything else.
what? they were probably bundled up here!
i knew it! samuel de champlain had wanted to establish the empire of quebec in mexico. but, he had a rock in his boot. so he stopped in what is now quebec. the pebble was placed there by a zionist in the service of the british.
last hour, quebec annexed mexico! viva el quebeco freed
oh no the dude who works for minimum wage made a mistake ...
reminds me of this clip 
^ packaged ** in quebec ** ^ from ^ mexican ^ raw ^ materials
tomexiqueicitte!
does the government sell tomatoes?
the most deplorable thing about it is the perverse effect of buying elsewhere. $ 1 invested in local agriculture generates much more than many industries.
imported directly from los tabarnacos!
maybe he's talking about the workers? lol there may be mexicans.
$ 5 for 4 tomatoes
the end is near
wait, why is it mexican?!
this is not the blue basket
why are they more expensive tho?
(╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻
quebexican.
oh boy
i come to order a "farmer's basket" or the tomatoes come cheaper than that. people see blue, don't read the entire label, and think they're buying local.
it is an employee who is pissed off and who took the first labels on the edge of the shelf when he made the impression…. or a dishonest boss who wants to increase his profits by 0.02% by trying to make the world believe that his mexican tomatoes are quebecois.
this is 100% the grocery store's fault tho
is this not illegal? (srry for the english, my french is terrible)
we did not change the paper in the printer before printing the prices.
wow, mexico finally settled in quebec? awesome!
it is a product that comes directly from the tablet
a merchant who uses the colors of quebec to make cash? what daring !!
if the mexican tomato has its citizenship, it is as much quebecois as the others.
it is the greenhouses that are imported from mexico.
mexico is home
the mexicans are in our fields. they probably put the tomatoes in the tray.
check the iga from my corner
du mexibec
you are eating little children
our family tries to buy without plastic. gerboire that it is difficult. give me cardboard if you really want to wrap things up. at least i can compost or recycle it!
:( woohoo for the pollution! here in ottawa they cut corn, put on a plastic tray and wrap in plastic wrap :(
nice gesture of solidarity with mexico!
mexico is not in quebec ??? 😂
what does this have to do with the blue basket?
to be honest, i don't mind where the stuff comes from, if you get me the best price that's what i buy.
ici pollution. it's all about the land. it's enough to give the big contracts to ruin the planet to others. we are very well able to do it ourselves.
it's mard, but at least it's our mard
i was going to write the same story without seeing the comments. really too much plastic in my basket.
it's not damn woke tomatoes !!!
tomatoes without religious symbol
quebec is a country
why do you think falardeau used "grocery store manager" as an insult?
metro saint-jerome is the worst fucking place. the most thief of thieves who has ca.
at the same time, when we see the number of things in quebec that still rely on the fax. it despairs me.
asti d'condos! i don't see social housing! and the bike path i'm sure it is not cleared of snow !! what does the mayoress do?
the more i get older and acquire knowledge in all kinds of fields, the more i understand that i don't know much in the end.
i don't really have an opinion on the government's actions, because every time i start telling myself that they should have acted differently, i realize that this "otherwise" also comes with its problems.
studying economics made me realize that there are no simple solutions to running the condition, and this pandemic is a perfect example. there is no good solution, just the "least worse" solution based on the data you have.
to those wondering what the curfew will be used for: it's not that people give themselves the virus by walking at 8 p.m., it's that the government wants to send the message to citizens that they are serious , and that we must not relax our efforts. because clearly most of the world has seriously slacked off in the past month.
backseat prime ministers
(and i say that as someone who hates the caq)
[deleted]
i'm just happy not to be legault and have to make these decisions.
can you imagine that, taking power with your new party after years of waiting, then having a relatively good start before having a damn historic pandemic that prevents you from taking care of your other files, with scrutinized decisions? by almost all of society ...
it lacks a&w.
if i ran, it would be for the greens; don't make me think i would have a chance.
ah ok, scuse i thought that in a democracy we had the right to criticize our elected officials because they are the ones who serve us ....
sorry, i'm going to shut up, do as i'm told and stop criticizing and asking questions.
chslds and fax machines are sua coche !!!!!! let's go legault!
we prevent anyone from expressing themselves. but why have we not yet had a perfect prime minister with consensus?
to quote bratwaith: if it existed we would have it ...
no snow? my country is winter.
grass in the middle of january ...? a climate disaster ???
when i retire from the labs ... 😏
shout out to my man destro who is chilling in his flying chariot.
the best meme i've seen here so far haha it's so we point. you should do an r / quebec starter pack.
if we are all trilingual, it's one more reason for the rest of canada to hate us so what are we waiting for?! xd
hindsight is 20/20.
at the same time, no one will hold it against the editor who says nonsense since the post will be forgotten within 3 days, but the world will come out of whatever arruda said in april to say what he is announcing at the moment. makes no sense.
at least less bureaucracy lol
good meme bro. but sincerely on the subject of covid, in my humble opinion i think the caq is doing its best. things are clearly not ideal but we are doing relatively well compared to some other states. in all, it could be worse (imagine having had gaétan barrette as minister of health now).
the caq are novices, victims of their lack of experience which is betrayed by many contradictions and a glaring lack in the communication department.
however, i prefer them to the liberals and i doubt the pq can be taken seriously again.
social housing is what we need, show me somethings that makes sense, and forget the futuristic crap for the upper middle class/ rich. homeless people off the streets, not freezing outside every winter, fixed roads and clean bicycle paths/sidewalks. parks for kids to play in, clean air as well as well kept city maintenance/upkeep, and highways. one last thing, please leave the smaller eco-systems and forests alone; we cannot continue to remove our forests and trees , replacing them with green shrubbery. as far as housing projects, it appears that they are able to get away with all kind bullshit, but if a large company wants to put up another project, then let them install the right-of-ways, sidewalks, water, sewage and maintenance.
obviously, there is a nonorail ...
as if we were a democracy and everyone's opinion mattered?
ps the government does not listen to them anymore.
ben, not enough signs in large french....c'ta annulée
if the government had followed what i said ...
from the beginning of march, hotels would have been requisitioned to impose a centralized quarantine on all international travelers rather than a soft recommendation approach.
as early as mid-march, strong mask-wearing recommendations were reportedly issued and hand-made fabric masks were reportedly distributed to avoid shortages of medical masks.
as early as march, special units would have been created to receive covid cases outside hospitals to prevent covid from entering hospitals.
we would have prevented people from moving from chsld to chsld.
as of may 14 at the latest, measures would have been taken to better ventilate enclosed spaces, including schools and workplaces.
weekly meeting committees would have been set up to pool the knowledge of frontline personnel to share their experiences on covid treatment and to review emerging scientific literature on the subject in order to refine treatment protocols as and when. measure without waiting after the quebec, federal or international bureaucracy.
in may, we would have set up human challenge trials this summer to verify the effectiveness of treatments quickly by asking for volunteers to be infected with covid in a clinical trial.
we would have used the 2 million rapid tests for systematic screenings as early as october to see if it worked.
we were working on systematic pcr screening plans for entire populations to try to eradicate covid city by city.
we would have tried ivermectin as a prophylaxis on a large scale in early december to see if it worked, and if so, we would have applied the protocol to all of quebec.
it was all my opinions in real time on what should have been tried. nothing retrospective, just my opinions in real time as the crisis unfolded.
it's up to you to judge whether you think the kchoze approach would have been more or less interesting than the legault-arruda approach.
add: note that nothing that i am proposing here assumes successes, they are only actions that could have been attempted. i'm not presuming, as fools might claim, any magical discovery or vaccine that magically appeared, these are just actions that might or might not have worked. the question is whether we consider that it would have been better to try, or to do nothing.
i see no one defending eugenics here.
the basic principle of a democracy is that the people are sensible, i mean, sense to be in power. the problem why many complain is that legault is making decisions without consulting the people, the others have not left and which have not been recommended by public health. basically he does his own thing. so yeah, i'm pretty sure there are the worst, but also the best ideas coming out. if you are the kind of person who does not accept other criticisms of our government's decisions, you clearly did not understand the purpose of a democracy and you should not have the right to vote.
yes seriously there are some here who would make good ministers and pm
what fascinates me is the people who have almost absolute confidence in the government.
without realizing that everything the government touches is less efficient, more expensive and of lower quality.
i work there. alternatives are available. the health network just does not want to adapt.
i was on the phone with revenu québec the other day, and i have to fill out a form and send it to them afterwards. i had the choice between fax and secure email, a kind of old regin that seems to have been optimized for netscape.
finally i sacred it in an envelope. it wasn't urgent anyway.
as a worker at the company that has the contract to handle all government faxes .... even we found it funny.
fax skon done with that?
it's not a tram that i see in the picture ??? screeeeeee
but seriously, i don't understand the purpose of a condo, it's the worst of both worlds.
you have neighbors in your walls, if there is a brit it is you who pays.
who is it that goes to the condos so that the new ones go to quebec for years?
it's called [the dunning-kruger effect] ( congratulations, you have just entered the area called "the valley of humility"
exact. people's logic: the curfew doesn't prevent me from taking my 8 p.m. walk. walking is not a vector of virus transmission so it is a bad measure. uh .. it's pcq it's not the march that is targeted ..
> the more i get older and acquire knowledge in all kinds of fields, the more i understand that i don't know much in the end.
>[...]
> there is no good solution, just the "least worse" solution depending on the data you have.
simple solutions to complex problems don't exist.
unfortunately there are many who will never descend from [mount stupid] ( because thanks to the echo chambers they are now no longer alone at the top, worse it makes the place warm in their eyes.
> the more i get older and acquire knowledge in all kinds of fields, the more i understand that i don't know much in the end.
good news! this phenomenon has a name: [the dunning-kruger effect] (
there is still a simple solution. the government could pass a law that prohibits it from acting during a pandemic. so that people take responsibility and that we have peace. instead of being brutalized.
we could just put tarlas anklets that don't respect the rule, like criminals instead of penalizing the entire population!
if the government wanted to be taken seriously the curfew would have happened much earlier (start of the second wave) and not when everything is going badly and it's a disaster.
if the government wanted to be taken seriously they wouldn't have said yes, then maybe. then no for the christmas gatherings
if the government wanted to be taken seriously they wouldn't have been talking about a ridiculous 28 day challenge when it was written in the sky that it was window dressing
if the government wanted to be taken seriously, they would have used the calm weather of this summer to prepare well for autonme and the coming winter.
it seems to me that it is too late to take this government seriously ...
> the more i get older and acquire knowledge in all kinds of fields, the more i understand that i don't know much in the end.
me, since i became a professional and thus that i participated in discussions leading to "expert decisions", my opinion of the "experts" took for his cold. so the idea that we must accept the "expert opinion" without thinking about it and without criticizing, because certainly "the expert" knows better than us, i no longer believe in it so much. i prefer that we expose our "experts" to criticism from everywhere, and those who are able to respond adequately, we know we can trust them, and those who respond with insult and arrogance, we would know that they are incompetent.
> (and i say that as someone who hates the caq)
i didn't vote for them either, but i understand that even though it's not my favorite track we'll get nowhere if we don't row in the same direction.
[deleted]
> he said to her "listen ... i'm not a helicopter pilot." i don't know anything about helicopters and even less about piloting ... but if i see a helicopter crashed into a tree, i am able to guess that the pilot made a mistake somewhere. "
this comment did so much, because when a helicopter crashes, it's not always the pilot's fault. it could be the fault of the mechanics (which is beyond the pilot's control).
but the big moron public who does not know that about helicopters and well they say to themselves "that's sure that's the pilot's faute"
clumsy. a helicopter can have technical wear or design issues. it's not a helicopter, but the boeing 737 max is there to remind you that it's not necessarily the pilot's fault.
be this big.
you don't have to be a chef to know that a dish tastes like mustard.
you could compare the pandemic to a helicopter crash if you had 20,000 cases a day and had to choose who lives and who dies in hospitals.
managing the pandemic is not perfect but who really could have managed a pandemic? it's not as if we had possible scientific data to be reproduced in order to apply the best measures.
managing a country is very much a matter of opinion. this is what democracy exists for. otherwise there would always be the "best expert" in power.
i don't like how the caq is handling the file, especially lately ... but i doubt that we would be in better hands with the liberals, let's say.
i don't recognize you on your student card, can you take it off .... everything !!!
sir, the meth lab is the other door
as the anglo say: better safe than sorry
nice, in-person exams to avoid cheating, but they are so glued to each other that it's impossible not to see the neighbor's answers.
well why not? it's not the worst thing that has happened to this school. ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯
legendary!
rip the other poly students
he did an internship with an asbestos decontamination contractor, it looks like 😂
it must have been hot in there.
did they inspect the masks to see if they wrote the exam answers on the inside? that would be their type there ....
cartridge masks of the kind that i know and use are not "legal" against covid because they only filter the incoming air and not the outgoing air.
maybe he's caring for a high-risk person at home?
otherwise .. yeah maybe a bit extreme haha
a man of culture.
houston, we have a problem
today he's a guy in a dinosaur suit.
haha excellent!!
covid causes mental illness ... nothing less
he is afraid of a small flu
at udes it's a lot more stupid. looks like some teachers think wearing a mask is magic
i really pity this person. to be afraid at this point .... look at the fear and the mental problems that the media can create in people
its scares the flu!
'lower his panties'
ah yes, little johnny, i recognize you.
science bitches!
or rather, the psychiatric ward is the other door
[deleted]
if only there was a way to say "it is better to prevent than to cure" in french
we are never too careful!
best safe that i apologize
than*
normally they alternate students from two different subjects.
kind of chemistry (vacuum) electric (vacuum) chemistry.
but normally the desks weren't so close together when i was there
i think it's just a question of perception in the photo, the students are quite two meters from each other, the neighbor's copy is quite far away.
it is hard to see because of the view but the offices are 1.50 to 2m in length so it's not easy to cheat
are you talking about the layered paint job that makes it look like a lump of legos?
wow
[deleted]
or fiberglass / composite materials.
less hot than the fever he would have if he caught the covid
in my school, during the exams, we have to change the mask when entering the class for one from school, but seeing this photo there are definitely answers in some masks.
you have to put a tit mask on each cartridge.
do you think paper masks filter the air that comes out?
it's probably a joke ...
i'm the guy with the black t-shirt sitting next to it. he did this to be trolled.
when it comes to mental issues, you should probably talk to someone about it.
you got the wrong door. the conspis groups of facebook it is by the.
esti who must not know his subject 🙄
your diploma from the university of life with advanced training in youtube is not up to date ...
> its scares the flu!
from 2,000 to 8,000 deaths from influenza per year in canada, on average.
covid-19, which is not a flu, has killed more than 7,300 people in quebec alone so far. almost 13,000 in canada. in one year, we will have had more deaths in quebec as a result of covid than in canada as a whole for influenza.
both can be scary, especially for vulnerable people. and just because we're not all vulnerable, and not all afraid, doesn't mean we should minimize these illnesses and act like buffoons without empathy.
it's not the flu, it's a deadly virus, you big grape.
well calvary, even the "flu" tries to avoid you that well the air!
what?
#polyglotproblems
you wrote and you committed. genius.
logically, it should break a ratings record this year, right?
at least they insist it won't be canceled. the positive case was a guest and his scene has already been shot.
seal wadding .... it's the third identical meme in 2 days ....
if there is a year that requires a bye bye it is 2020
not the bye bye 😭
like every year, i know i'm going to be disappointed, but it's okay, i'm on leave and i can listen to it without getting up from my bed.
question not report, is there a place to listen to bye-bye on the internet? i don't have cable and usually i listen to it at someone else's house on the 31st.
[deleted]
they won't run out of topics this year !!
boom! roast
😂😂
will rudolph still be aired?
based on the rest of the year, the bye-bye will be canceled.
this will be the high point of this year of late.
honestly i worry more about the quality. 1 hour of joke on covid it may be redundant
oof i was afraid it would be canceled lol
see [here] ( and [here] ( / comments / k652h0 / michael_legault_de_l% c3% a9mission_le_bureau /)
[deleted]
radio-canada is still available in streaming on their website.
like 10 years ago, i would have said "open your tivi at 2" but there even the 2 the 10 the 17 and the 35 take at least one signal converter above $ 100 to pog :(
thank you very much
honestly, they'll probably just talk about the covid for 1:00, it'll be loud screeching
no bye bye would be the worst possible thing
i am especially disappointed that anne dorval is not there to make crotte-de-nez conspiratorial ...
seriously i feel like they're not going to make too many jokes about covid. i have the impression that seeing that everyone is fed up with this that they will concentrate on other things that have happened during the year
no kidding, i didn't copy it. it is also improved;)
thanks!
thank you
> take at least one signal converter above $ 100 to pog :(
televisions still have tuners for the antennas as far as i know? the only flaw is that if you are not very close to an antenna, the signal may not be strong enough. even in ste-julie with an antenna in my attic, some chains in montreal sometimes have a hard time.
snif :(
it would be so much better if they did the exact opposite and hardly spoke at all about covid or trump, it could be subtle references in sketches on other topics, like everyone flushed cash thanks to trudeau, someone on a normally crowded street in montreal wondering where everyone is, etc.
people would be surprised and it would be funny, then the world needs to win this year more than ever.
you forgot the / s
there is françois bellefeuille on the other hand. he would be perfect there as a mad conspiratorist
andré ducharme says that the flat years are the easiest to write since not all the jokes have already been made.
they will surely focus on something else.
it's very subjective
it's been since i was a kid that i check that i check the bye-bye every year, it may have been what it was, i would find pocket that is not going especially this year. there's a lot worse that can and probably will happen, but at least one positive thing isn't wrong, it's about time
very good point!
[deleted]
> it could have been what it was
the first bye bye aired in 1968, and i'm pretty sure you had people in 1972 complaining that the bye bye was made worse than when olivier guimond was doing it.
thank you it was my first meme for life haha
i know i know haha
this thread is a dompe on fire in oka
why are there so many weird comments !?
i was going to make a comment / s by imitating an anti-measure, but there i could taste too much
i really don't understand the people on this sub. they are much too black or white ... in my opinion some measurements are also exaggerated. that doesn't mean we're having parties of 20 people in a basement. chu stayed all alone with us at christmas, and on new year's day i went to see a friend who also lives alone.
today a friend came by my house to talk about it. 1 hour after he left, my vaccinated parents arrived in my driveway to come and see me and observe the evolution of my landscaping. they were aware that i was with someone before, does that make them and me estis revolted selfishs?
it will soon be 2 years since my mother received a caress from her son pcq i was outside the country before the covid. i find that exaggerated.
taking the bus, the metro, going grocery shopping, working, going to the dep, snowboarding, playing golf or playing in the park, is it without unnecessary risks?
i think it's even legal to have a team that comes to renovate your home. but am i not allowed to help my father?
some rules go too far in my opinion and it makes some people cross pcq bounds they find it makes no sense, others are now depressed, others live with a feeling of incomprehension and others feel it protected by measure. some of the people who feel protected judge others and make them sick.
the comments are wow.
we are all 3-4 months from being vaccinated. i prefer to be confined like the tabarnak than to relive a year and a half of confinement because of the variants.
this winter, at the worst of the second wave, we received a friend of my brother's. she slept with us for two nights. after being refused at the center for battered women, she had the choice between going out on the street or going back to her husband who beat her. my brother hesitated, but he made the right choice, and invited her. there was no outbreak. he may have saved a life that day.
so when the government says that we must respect “all measures, all the time, without exception” (what they said in their advertising campaign, i quote), i apologize but it is shit. there are exceptions. and it is not these exceptions that make the situation so serious at this time. it is the blatant incompetence of the government that is to blame, but it is the people who suffer.
so if your partner is violent, if you have suicidal thoughts, if you are in a crisis, please go see a friend. you are not a murderer for that, and even if it causes an outbreak. be reasonable, do your best, but remember that no one is perfect, and ultimately the impact of an occasional individual deviation from the rules is minimal.
the measurements are not overdone. they are completely out of touch with reality. about three-quarters of cases come from schools and workplaces, yet the government is putting the curfew an hour earlier and asking for the mask out. they declared a deconfinement while we were still close to the thousand cases per day. they sent the students back to school on time on the day they declared the third wave. it's ridiculous. the government is looking for a scapegoat, and the people are too kindhearted and accept to take the hat.
let’s stop fighting among ourselves. there is no such thing as an unnecessary risk. nothing is strictly necessary, we could all get tired tomorrow morning if that told us
just here to comment on how everyone talks about other people's comments.
take my free award! and my upvote with pleasure! finally some good fucking meme!
tabarnak
i have a silly question, as a quebecer who lives abroad: when did we decide that it was going to be "the covid"? it seems to me that it was "the" at the beginning? pure curiosity.
wow the majority of downvoted comments just make you ask the question: "what is an unnecessary and / or unreasonable risk."
if i have dinner with a couple of friends once a month, like, it's just the three of us. i live alone, i work from home, i don't go out too fat. is this an unnecessary / unreasonable risk?
if i ride a bike with friends, there are three of us, we are outside, we are never less than two meters, is it an unnecessary / unreasonable risk? i don't even know if it's forbidden or not, the measurements change all the time and i'm tired of keeping track.
if i'm going to walk with my cousin, we don't wear masks outside, we're less than two meters away. he studies, he is in the apartment, at a distance, he does not go out either. is this an unnecessary / unreasonable risk? that either, honestly, i'm more sure if it's correct or not. i live alone, do you have the right to receive visitors? what if i receive visitors outside no mask, instead of at home no mask?
the sanitary measures are full of holes and contradictions, it does not take papineau's head to realize it. there is no real proof that the curfew is effective in slowing the spread of the virus, and the tip on the masks outside was downright embarrassing.
i'm a little fed up that if we criticize the sanitary measures all of a sudden we are stupid conspirators. françois legault has clearly never lived alone in his life, he cares completely about the people who live in the city, it seems. so yes, i break the measures, yes i take risks. between that or rot on my chair, depress, rehash dark thoughts, i'll tell you, if one day we notice that while going to have supper at my friends' house i caused a big outbreak, i will be hanged, i don't care.
narrator: karen was not ready to hear it.
overall, we agree
simplistic
we should allow individual risk-taking, it's a freedom we deserve.
but when you involve others in your risk, like driving drunk, or making them sick, that's not ok in my opinion.
i wear the mask, i wash my hands, and i fuck the government.
the measurements are no longer based on science, unless the political science of the cegep is included.
imagine sacrificing your freedoms and rights for security
[deleted]
what is the definition of unnecessary risk? rendering anything can be considered an unnecessary risk. our lives don't come down to what is useful or not for society, it's annoying in the end to be answered all the time.
edit: this thread is a pro measures circlejerk, i wanted to be in good faith but you have to believe that it will not be this kind of thread the ...
never put your dick in crazy.
it mostly depends on how we define [* risk *] ( covid-19-cases-1.4529036).
phew make me downvote, but i shared science 🤔 it must be conspiracies 😂
lol it's sad but realizing it and too much don't like it. it's too bad
what is an acceptable risk for you? because the definition of its changes absolutely everything in the discussion. personally, and according to the statistics, i have made my opinion that the risk is low enough that i conclude that the measurements are exaggerated.
the left can't meme.
thank you, i'm proud!
can i borrow your expression for future cases? i laughed a lot
the one that is owned by the federal government that does nothing to remedy it?
oh god, that's a real mess
ikr! it's so absurd, even if i force myself i can't be so weird
aweille dont, shoot us here, you'll see, we're not like other social media.
you can *trust* me
i think this is the place to use common sense where the government has none.
like you say, there are some measures that make no sense, but it's not an excuse to screw all the precautions up
the problem is that the government is going to half measure pcq they do not want impacted "the economy". that's why you can't go and help your father, but a private company yes.
you have the right to help your father. the services are accepted for the reason of visit, whether it is a plumber or a son changes nothing.
you know as much as i do that you can go and give your mother a hug. i can't believe we've come to this.
yes exactly ! legit we should have a very strict containment by the time everyone is vaccinated, that would be smarter.
the variants will exist regardless of our confinement. it is a global problem.
le variants
[deleted]
thanks for taking my meme and over-reasoning it for your rant, i hope that emptied you.
kind of pretty obvious what i mean by unnecessary risk nobody tells a battered woman to stay in there i ask jo-bloe to stop party at 20 in her basement while yelling liberty.
if the outbreaks do not come from bars / clubs, parties and gyms (with the exception of a gym that we all know and which supports my reasoning), but mainly from other places that cannot be closed (schools , certain workplaces and etc.) maybe this is a sign that the measures are working?
i understand your point of view, we must remain human in this whole story and continue to support each other in difficult times while keeping in mind the risks caused by our actions.
it is certain that the measures are severe, but in order not to lose control it is necessary that it is severe. as with children, you give them one foot and they take five.
eventually, i dare to hope that we will reach the end, that we will see the light or end of the tunnel, and if we do not want that light to fade, we must not give up.
where do you get the statistics for the source of new cases? do you have any references? i would like to follow the sources of the outbreak. you seem very well informed on this.
covid means 'coronavirus disease'. so one disease. on the other hand, we say the coronavirus.
people who live alone can graft themselves onto another bubble.
the part where you cringe about making an outbreak and putting people's lives in danger is really cringe and hypocritical, but hey, you do you!
i think it's pretty clear i'm talking about who, nobody is going to roast you pcq you see 1 person per month, we all know who's who see a different gang every day.
it is precisely that people like you are right to be shy, but those who calmed down from the start just use it to justify their jemenfoutism.
i am deeply against certain measures, but i do not serve to justify seeing lots of people, i break the law halfway once every 2 weeks to see my friends alone for the sake of my mental health and the rest of the time i take it me.
if one day we notice that while going to have supper at my friend's house i caused a big outbreak, they will hang me, i won't care.
me, me and me again. just me.
we're just in a circlejerk, there's no point in fighting it's going to pass eventually. i think it's our fault for thinking that an intelligent discussion was possible on a meme.
to answer your questions, no your three examples are not unnecessary risks and are not even prohibited by the rules in place at present. normally you could graft yourself into a single family bubble so you would have to choose between your cousin and your couple of friends. however if your cousin doesn't come home / you don't go home, your only family bubble is your couple of friends so you're a-ok.
the only thing you mention is the visit outside. normally your visit couldn't stay on private property, but go for a walk and you're ok!
if really these are the only things you do, you don't even break the measures ...
but to say things like "françois legault has never lived alone in his life" is where you seem silly. françois is a human like everyone else, he has probably already lived alone, and no, he does not hide from the people who live in the city ...
except that it was already like that before the pandemic. we are bathed in a sea of viruses and bacteria, that's life on earth. everyone always has the possibility of being a carrier of a pathogen that could technically go down a chain of infection until killing someone, and besides you were probably part of it. not badly unreasonable to demand that everyone deprive themselves of the things that make life meaningful because all of a sudden you just realize how germs spread and that's scary.
well yes and running the risk of spreading a virus to others is not a risk that involves others? if you do not follow the instructions and you get sick, who knows how many people you will infect, for example if you have no symptoms but you go to the grocery store? it's exactly this way of thinking that gets people tagged as self-centered.
the case is that i'm sure the people at the quebec gym thought it was an individual risk and they still infected ~ 350 people.
it's better to wear the mask though
the discussion is getting too out of hand. the thread is closed.
gone there, me too. if you don't want to get vaccinated, fine. bear the consequences. hope you live, but there's no one else to blame but yourself if not. the solution is there, bless us with patience with the measurements.
is not he the one who sacrifices them? that they go and be vaccinated and that they will be patient
i literally have no empathy for the unvaccinated for no good reason.
i think it's just completely irresponsible people who just abuse the system without contributing. parasites of society.
we talk but if he holds a hard line with unvaccinated health workers, service breakdowns will also cost lives ... he is stuck between the tree and the bark, i would not like to be in his shorts.
yep, i especially get my slap of divisions and hateful messages towards the unvaccinated.
we'll have to stop this, it's not acceptable
ps i have my 2 doses and all
with the 13% of quebecois not vaccinated, 18% 1 doses will squeal the network on the ass as 100% of non vac did?
if you are a lost cause ...
no way we're looking at the real culprit? the one who caused the death of thousands of quebecois in chsld by his inaction at the start of the crisis? the one who makes the crisis last by investing in advertising, pr firms and polls instead of strengthening the system? the one who continues not to see the problem of school ventilation?
you are lost...
given that it is their choice and that they live with the consequences, if we have the vaccination passport to resume our life and they exclude themselves thus, it is their decision.
i would just like that, failing to be able to send them the bill if hospitalized, those who refused the vaccine without a valid reason to be treated as a last priority in the hospital and that they be disconnected if someone needs their place. their immune system is pretty strong anyway.
funny, people think that once everyone is immunized that they'll be able to go back to normal. what makes you think that way? there's a new variant every week.
even places where there were not really cases of covid remain locked down.
i think i understand the anger, its that you're now vaccinated and you see no end in sight...and you're going to need a 3rd shot soon. variantmu - its coming.
this post the phew ... a lot of people who tell others to do their research and not to trust the media. dude, i'm not an immunology biologist. even if i can read a study, what tells me that i have enough skills to interpret the study well enough? am i missing a part of the context that is necessary for a good understanding?
i trust the scientific community to produce a vaccine as effective as they can, as i trust the tank maker not to get my tank tossed in my face the first time i leave it, as i trust the carpenter to build me a roof that won't fall on my head in the first breeze. the others don't care about me in general. they just want to do their job right and go chilling on netflix at the end of the night.
i am unvaccinated who caught the covid. can we stop portraying the unvaccinated as fucking anti-vaxx or calvary conspiratorialists.
enough is fucking enough, we'll never reach 100% and even then it won't change a thing. there are countries that are 20% vaccinated.
criss, that's what you want, stop treating the unvaccinated, put them in jail ...
damn, pedophiles barely serve 6 months in prison and smokers with lung cancer continue to smoke.
did you know that the flu currently kills more children than covid?
the world is made crazy.
there are people who will welcome the fact that i will probably end up killing myself.
i live with severe anxiety and am no longer able to live in such a divided and hostile environment.
you are crazy and you don't even realize it.
the wound dressing will be much longer than the covid.
:(
oh no, i don't care about the unvaccinated. have a good day with your hate!
r/hermancainaward
i am not a conspirator and i will receive my second dose of vaccine soon, but ciborium, is it the 13% of unvaccinated that will "clog" the hospitals? what the fuck? unless we have literally the worst togo-style healthcare system on the planet in africa, it doesn't make any sense, no matter what your opinion on the covid / vaccine / passport i would be surprised someone would find it to be. logic.
worse the vaccine passport, like the curfew, it's completely stupid how it is useless against the spread of the virus (since that's still the ultimate goal .. right? reduce the spread, and not punish the non- vaccinated?). no it doesn't hurt the person using their qr code, no it's not that complicated, no it's not that long, in my humble opinion it's just useless.
coudon is whose bin filled with conspi in this thread, it's crazy.
it's made a pro covid place of worship here. all hail legault and all its measures ....
the unvaccinated make an excellent scapegoat for a government that has been incompetent from the start.
well, if you refuse all the solutions that are given to you, after that you cannot cry that you are part of the system's forgetfulness.
crime we had the lottery, the mobile clinics, you name it. if you're not vaccinated, stay home with your aluminum hat
lol no. you can give me all the examples you want, like tobacco. it is very harmful to health and we do not prevent people from smoking. the seat belt in the car, we do not prevent people from driving. trans fats and msgs, we are not preventing people from eating mcdonald's. why ? because it brings billions in profits and taxes to the respective governments. are you going to make me believe that a tiny percentage of unvaccinated people will bring society down? that doubly vaccinated people are protected from any mutation in covid? so let's see esti, you have to be a bit of a horn to not think that there is something bigger hidden behind it all! never in history has people been prevented from living and enjoying fundamental rights because of a virus with a 98% chance of survival. we are * way past * the outcome of the vaccination. it's 110k% political.
to see the comments, yen are made omnubile in tabarnak. it becomes a witch hunt there. it could be no damn, shit company! at some point you'll have to build a dome where you can squeal all the unvaccinated in it, right ?! after that they will say “we are going to pitch a bomb in the dome” ft to look at the comments, 3/4 of the world would agree !!
hahaha the vaccinated people who think who are "better" than the unvaccinated 🤦🏻‍♂️🤦🏻‍♂️
in any case, pfizer, moderna and astrazeneca will be the palette $$$ for the decade to follow.
personally, i have been vaccinated twice and had the covid, two days with the flu and i left. how can it be that several other countries / provinces have already left. yes quebec wants everyone's health but at some point they will never be able to have everyone on board. must stop all this before it turns into a big sauce. thank you good night
native selection at a given time
we are one of the most vaccinated places in the world and you keep on fighting. vulnerable people are protected, but our health care system has always sucked. there are always going to be sick people. what you seem to have a hard time understanding is that even with extraordinary numbers the dictator is maintaining his state of health emergency and no one wants things to get back to normal. maybe i would go get the shot if that could make a difference. but 30 or 50 or 90% vaccination, that will not change. we know that the virus is transmitted the same way. damn who has some who are not very bright in quebec
should we treat obese people? the smokers? those who are constantly sick? the bs? those who do not exercise? i imagine a world where we don't apply this logic 100%, most pro-vaccine people would be the first to leave behind.
a real question: i had covid two weeks ago, i'm not a vax but i'm clearly as protected as a vaccinated and i can't get vaccinated for a good month. why am i not entitled to a passport?
in france if you have covid, you have a pass valid for at least 6 months.
i am as protected as a vaccinee, but i have no rights until i take a dose. is it still a matter of public health or just control?
more like, i thank those who have made the maximum efforts to help us in times of pandemic. those who continue to harm or do nothing, if you die, i will not brake.
hi wacko, i'm currently having dinner somewhere today i haven't signed the register i don't have the vaccine and i still have less of the vaccine passport, for example i'm washing my hands with their ostia of freezing screeching too high in alcohol and i had to rub like 1 minute and a half for my hands to be more viscous.
and everywhere i go to work, the world tells me to put my mask aside because they don't care about 75% of the places that i go spinned i work in the public in different companies every day and i feel quite a bit world worse at worst if you have your little fever i will stay with us for two weeks.
are you mad?
i'm really sick of our mard society. are you finished with generalizations, divisions, shortcuts, dichotomies, insults?
can we build something beautiful and good at some point?
i have been vaccinated 1 dose since friday, not willingly (i do it for my children, not for my health) and not because i was informed and it was the worst vaccination experience of my life. there were 5 people around me who were wondering if they should call the ambulance, they kept me for 3 hours under observation. i got out of it but finally my heart screwed up and i had to go to the same hospital the next day.
i'm sick of it and sometimes i just want to die, i'm so sick of imbeciles who not only show no compassion (it's just 15 minutes, it's easy, there's nothing there i have had the vaccine is bein safe, blah blah), but spit on people who have trouble getting vaccinated and who do not react like the plebs to all the products that pass through their body. i'm not able to eat three quarters of the stuff that the normal world eats, but it's not the same, it's a vaccine, your body will react very well. well my body did as usual, reacts mentally !!!!
with that, i'm going to phone my doc to find out if they are doing any sleepy injections because i'm likely going to have a heart attack on the 2nd dose.
i'm one of the unvaccinated fucking. with that, thank you for your lack of compassion.
get the vax, stop smoking cigarettes and go vegan my fellow québécers!!! love and peace to all ❤️
what about the children? i was under the impression that the majority of the unvaccinated were children returning to school. while the majority of children won't get too sick, there will be enough who will experience long-term effects that will change their future quality of life, potentially forever, if we forget to protect them. also, the vaccines start to become less effective after about 6 months (see israel), so if we aren't at least a little careful and take steps to limit wave 4, we risk getting sick ourselves when our vaccines become less effective towards the end of the year.
please don't forget the nurses.
fourth wave? or flu season?
is it weird ein?
i have noticed that the majority of people who don't want to be given a bite (i have google how to write it) are either young 17-25ish or parents who are in the same bracket. age than me.
often times, these people all have an argument or two that are really easy to demolish with good sense.
when i was ti-cul (i'm just 38), during the school year, there was one or two days devoted exclusively to receiving vaccines. worse guess what?
there wasn't an esti de kid missing that day. no conspiracies, no excuses because mypecial childypiscavalui / shecausedtwgeheheheehehdjsjsjsublluululullu.
really sorry, the last sentence came out wrong but it sounds like that in my head when someone releases their anti-vaxx speech.
no. no foolishness. pique, relax and tayeule good day.
is it weird ein?
everyone [insert here an arbitrary statement to sow bickering]
uh everyone has his slap of the anxious and hysterical covid 🙄
fuck les antivax.
ben at the same time who will be sad when his delay will snap lmao
i wish i spoke french so i could understand this better. funny nevertheless :)
when are we going to integrate death as something normal. the amount of wasted medication is not insignificant.
i love the smugness of the pro-vaccine reddit cucks trying to drag the brave unvaccinated into their misery by force in numbers. social influence being the only manipulation tool they know, it's no wonder that their conformist pawn attitude predisposed them to accept without questioning the idea of being injected with more than one (!) experimental vaccine because they miss how life was in 2019, and now they want to charge others for having a spine.
in short, i should practice gunning vaccinated on a resident evil game, because after yet another vaccine to protect you from an umpteenth variant, i wonder which pathogen carrier variant will come and scratch at my door. begging to be part of his gang.
i find that funny, since the (or certians? i don't know) unvaccinated indeed say "we could die but it is a risk that we assume"
why their choice is less valid than the government's choice
holy shit, the antivax white knights came out in this thread.
the small antivaxes must be protected! otherwise they won't be able to throw rocks at our prime minister!
baguette
[deleted]
always pick up on smokers and the obese. there is a tax on cigarettes and several have a tax on sugary drinks. finally, antivaxes should be taxed more. it could be added in the tax return, if you do not have a vaccination passport you are taxed.
someone unvaccinated who comes to hospital with covid should automatically go to the bottom of the waiting list for a bed.
well i live in toronto our prime minister is the most inept. his attitude of letting it happen has precipitated the 4th wave. alberta rewards the recalcitrant by offering $ 100 to take a vaccine. it is obvious that the problem that will prolong the pandemic is the unvaccinated. the vice must definitely must be tightened. unless there is evidence of physical danger, compulsory vaccination. otherwise dismissal. especially those who work directly with the public. no sympathy for the recalcitrant.
in fact, i have come to the point of telling myself that if an unvaccinated person falls ill with covid, they are refused access to the hospital. that's enough the squealing of silliness. i swear to you that i am not re-fining this fall and that i will not prevent myself from seeing my family vaccinated. seriously, the mask, can we take that off at some point? like in places where you need the vaccine passport, no more mask or distance please?!?!? criss i can't wait for the government to act like the vaccine works… because it works.
"yeah, but there may be unvaccinated employees in restaurants, bars, etc."
yeah pi? let them burst the ostis of morons. pi the advantage is that when they die, they will finally increase the vaccination rate lol
i read three comments and i quit, i feel like having a nice day ...
they call us “fake french” as if they were “real english”
cool, why did i go to the other thread. i was having a beautiful day ...
people are ignorant, stupid and racist.
more news at 8
wow.
just….
wow.
it looks like today, in an era where racism, homophobia, sexism, etc. are less and less acceptable, certain people must redirect their hatred towards groups which are more "attackable", like the quebecers. frankly that saddens me, coming from a quebecer who has a lot of friends in english canada and who knows that the loudest are often those who have the least things to say.
"fake language like french, which is basically elvish"
where do you want your clack?
without excusing the hateful behavior that led to this post (harassment, intimidation, violence), i find it very distressing how widespread "quebec bashing" is, and even accepted, in a community that i normally appreciate.
the comments are gross
friends, i invite us collectively to stop apologizing for existing. we have enough of our own problems to deal with in quebec; no need to worry about the opinions of people who mostly do not live here. accept criticism when it is legitimate and helps us grow every day. but the other thread isn't that, it's just a huge * troll job *.
du même sub [what the fuck is going on in quebec](
i went to see, i thought it couldn't be that bad.
ultimately it's worse than i thought lol.
ah but tse, quebec-bashing and francophobia does not exist. you did not know?
these just sad to see. kesse that we quebecers were made to be so hated by the rest of the world? these not us after all which was made colliniser by the anglos? honestly, i read the first two comments, and i almost have the taste of crunching my cell on the ground. there is no reason, but no, that we should receive such hateful, violent and xenophobic messages.
obviously there are idiots in quebec who will act like the man in the anecdote, but these idiots are everywhere on earth.
i love and i hate this community depending on the subject but this one hurts me. i got downvoted quite solidly (i deleted the message because from experience it will not bring a discussion in this situation.) for telling them that it is not representative of all of quebec, even if there is , should not hide it, and that it was a shame to see so much xenophobia towards quebecers on their part considering that it was exactly what paige and pat were undergoing but in person.
their moderators are quickly on the button when it is a subject that they do not like or which is "off-topic" but when an entire community is attacked because of an old xenophobic man (at least c what seems to be the case, he could be a young asshole not xenophobic.) they don't give a damn.
the comments are often very vicious towards public figures, but those there are probably not going to go to this sub. to my knowledge, this is the first time that they have completely attacked a community and, i know that there are probably not many, but we have been a few french-speaking fans of this group for a long time.
the worst part is that there is one who had the nerve to say that french-speaking quebecers always make the victims towards the rest of canada, when just a little higher / lower there are precisely a lot of anti- comments. francophone / quebecois.
thanks for letting me steam out.
the difference between this kind of thread and those on / canada is 2 things:
\ - moderation is really strict on this kind of thing on canadian subs, probably because it can get out of hand quickly.
\ - the controversial threads on quebec and french are often negotiated and do not appear in the first pages.
here we really see a pure and unfiltered reaction, it's beautiful to see ...
it was even more violent than i expected. it is downright hate speech.
ayoye, it hurts my animal heart
i was banned from the sub for "brigading" for trying to bring a different point of view. / shrug
as an anglo-québécois, i have never been able to understand why so many so many anglos born and raised here have exaggerated how "terrible" it is to live here. it is a strange victim complex that isn't really in touch with reality. especially with anglo-montrealers where you could literally live 100% in english and have no issues whatsoever and yet they whine and complain the most.
are there some issues and tensions? sure, no doubt and that's normal, but it will be like that no matter where you live. no one is being "oppressed" here, it is such a silly thing to believe in if you're an anglophone. i am proud to have grown up here and that i can speak french, it has shaped my life for the better.
the reactionary instincts of americans and * canadians * are so repressed these days that when it comes out, it has to come out all at the same time. it sucks to see, but on the other hand, it might as well come out on us who are relatively well off in our own corner of the continent that it comes out on their black neighbors, arabs, etc.
but * damn * that you have to be stupid to be prescriptivist in a language you don't even speak.
i'm so tired of quebec serious bashing ...
we should all go downvoting the original post and comments. and they won't even be able to find out our plan because they don't understand french
[deleted]
urg, i have a headache after reading these comments. ouch.
it hurts even when you expect it to. i just hope that one day these people realize their own hypocrisy.
nice bunch of gogoles. i don't know how you go about agreeing to stay in the same country.
and in addition they allow themselves to tackle france in the process. what did we do to these idiots?
well, i want to squeal my time in canada, but the colonized, the masochists and the non-quebecois are holding us back 😕
i often notice that as soon as a francophone acts in an inappropriate manner, anglophones quickly make generalizations and bring everything back to the culture / origin.
i don't understand why we have such a bad reputation ...
it all started because i quote retweeted one of paige's (pat's blonde) ridiculous anecdotes as being questionable and it caused this panic attack in her, her boyfriend and the entire fanbase. they all rushed on me and then on other quebecers on twitter and since pat does not stop writing silly things about the province on his twitter thread while his simps suck the seed. i always doubted that pat and his wife had a rodhesian mentality but now it became quite clear.
it's no wonder super best friends disbanded considering woolie doesn't get into this bullshit even though he's only english speaking, otherwise i doubt he and reggie (who is french) would have been buddies for long.
what do you want? it was in '95 that it was time to scare the hell out. it is too late now, we will have to endure until the disappearance of french in america.
the maturity level of this sub is lower than that of r / quebec.
we must put these comments into perspective, and not internalize them, and then project them onto other communities.
yes it is racist. knowing that there is a non-anglo place in north america complicates part of their identity.
but there are plenty of non-francophones who love quebec, and quebecers. some are our neighbors, others live further away.
[deleted]
the amount of misinformation and knowledgeable people in the comments turns me off.
oh i forgot, we're on reddit. completely normal in fact!
the ** real ** side of a cacanadian * love-in *.
it's this kind of thread that makes me want to clone leo major and release them on canada.
i find it funny who criticizes our french, i am bilingual, i have no difficulty in making myself understood in english by a texan, someone from arizona and new york, yes i have an accent but it is not pronounced when i speak in english
damn english, they ruined all of canada and quebec
i'm tired of always seeing the same mess that begins each time with ignorant people who understand nothing about politics who invent stuff.
i'm sure it was the orange cones that ruined montreal
> damn french
> they ruined montreal
if i hadn't come across the web pages of these anglo groups who firmly believe that montreal is an anglophone city stolen by francophones (\ *) a few moons ago, i would have wondered where can well come such rants these days. these are words that should have stuck in the past.
(\ *) worse still, some of these believers in "english montreal" believe that quebec is an anglophone province stolen by francophones. having heard "there's too much french in quebec" too often in my youth (196x-7x), i see that attitudes have hardly changed in recent decades.
i just got allowed on their subreddit for suggesting not to generalize and to try to understand the reality of quebec.
rip. i am of the opinion that the meeting between two peoples is never easy, but ayoye.
a frenchman who has lived in quebec for 7 years now… the comments of the original post disgust me to the point. the community reddit takes offense at the slightest racial joke but apparently it's free for all to expose all its xenophobia towards quebecers.
i am french, i live in quebec and i support you, quebec cousin, in your fight to keep our language!
this world will never understand the frustration of not being screwed to be served in the mother tongue of their province. when we go to the usa we speak in english because guess what, it's the mother tongue of the country. i'm perfectly bilingual, but i shouldn't have to force myself to speak english in a local criss de dep.
i tried to read some comments, telling myself that it was probably a few people who were mean, but not all.
criss i was crying so much there was stuffy stuff for nothing. "fakes frenchs" ...
canada moment ..
report for hate.
i mean ... they spend their days jerking off while playing video games. it's not exactly people of culture, rather pathetic their little world
we wouldn't hurt a fly, let's see ... unless it tries to take on our poutine.
it is a very important debate. i refuse to live in a society that thinks that belle pro poutine is the best.
i'm a racist against grated cheese
canada in an image crisis? quickly, we blame quebec.
it's weird the same, but i didn't understand the link with bill c-21.
i don't particularly like this law which i find exclusive, but there are really silly shortcuts to find a culprit it's serious
what's the drama with london? i did not follow it pentoute
worse, it is the beautiful province that leads.
it is not fair. it is not the same thing, our racism is systemic.
there was a lull in quebec bashing in the 2010s, it starts again in force from what i see.
getting really tired of my canadian passport
no, but first degree; how outrageous is all the gibberish that associates pl21 and the london attack? the canadian government does not care and has never given a damn about fighting racism. now, it is good for them to talk about it so they play mothers theresa.
oh, the best is that of the coq-au-bec without a cap
i have just eaten a poutine from costco, it was excellent i regret not having voted for
i do not understand? london is not in ontario? i do not deny that he has a racist tendency towards muslims in quebec, but why is quebec accused… when it happened in ontario?
from kossé? i missed a bit there. i listened to the news and i never had this impression
wait what?
esti j'adore sa pt after the tournament jet a restaurant which contacted me to give a gift card to one of you 🤫🤭
[deleted]
3 journalists not canada *
hahaha! if you see someone putting grated cheese on their poutine, you can reverse the roles:
"quebec which blames the person for not knowing what a poutine is"
"the person in question who does not have easy access to couik couik cheese and who wanted to try poutine"
i know a guy who has the gift of watching his food before eating it and he would have called tva nouvelles instead of hurting the fly.
aye aye! (pronounced as in the english commune chambers)
it's best at 3 a.m. when you're really drunk.
change my mind
i must admit that i voted belle pro to screw the fuck up.
[deleted]
saskatchewan needs good people like you!
it depends on the restaurant too. belle pro, la belle province, etc. is it a chain or several?
the one in bois-des-filion has always been the best in my own book!
* go back to your cheese factory *
ban
hate crime
underestimated comment
we are canada's scapegoat
not london, london, ontario. a 20 year old young man killed a muslim family with his truck, it was targeted. the grandmother, parents and 15-year-old big sister died, only the 9-year-old boy survived. we are being blamed for the attack on the quebec mosque, as if we had given the example or agreed to it.
an illuminated (à la bissonette) deliberately hit a family of muslims with his pickup (killed 5 and a seriously injured 9 years old i think). part of the english-speaking press (because you don't have to put them all in the same package) decided that it was a good time to talk about bill 21.
my personal theory is that attacks like the quebec mosque could just happen in quebec because they, with their multiculturalism, don't have radicals and it just couldn't happen in english canada. so what comes naturally for some english speaking elites? well yes, we find a way to blame quebec. it's so ridiculous i still have a hard time believing it.
i think there was the murder of an immigrant in ontario and quebec seems to be to blame. i didn't follow too much either, hence the same haha
an illuminated (à la bissonette) deliberately hit a family of muslims with his pickup (killed 5 and a seriously injured 9 years old i think). part of the english-speaking press (because you don't have to put them all in the same package) decided that it was a good time to talk about bill 21.
my personal theory is that attacks like the quebec mosque could just happen in quebec because they, with their multiculturalism, don't have radicals and it just couldn't happen in english canada. so what comes naturally for some english speaking elites? well yes, we find a way to blame quebec. it's so ridiculous i still have a hard time believing it.
[deleted]
> our racism is systemic.
yes indeed. but the only fatal racist attack in recent years is that of sainte-foy, committed under the couillard government (plq), firmly anti-pl21 (which therefore did not exist at the time). when to do, if we want to make questionable links, we can determine that the pl21 contributes to lowering anti-muslim attacks since "statistically" there were some - only in the pre-pl21 era. in addition, the government of ontario operates a strategy contrary in its entirety to pl21. when we say that racism is systemic, that does not mean that the government is necessarily the cause or that when it is, it is the only one. if tomorrow a government very focused on rs issues is elected, that will not solve everything. it's good to make laws but we talk more about customs, culture and the general atmosphere that reigns. politicians must be held accountable, but the real effort must be collective
[deleted]
after the attack, at least 3 editorials in ontario newspapers claimed it was because of quebec and bill 21
i remember that in 2015, the gazette put the paris attacks on the backs of french-speaking quebecers, so a crime in ontario has no chance of escaping it.
a dude rolled over and killed 4 people of muslim faith, so it's because of law 21 according to english canada.
london, ontario.
not london
too soon.
you haven't seen the subsequent editorials ....
neither the silence of the members of the roc in the face of these completely stupid accusations.
i come from saguenay. best poutine for life at trois-points: grated cheese, bbq sauce, au gratin in the pizza oven.
i said aye aye in the sense that it hurts to hear that someone finds the one in la belle province the best
there, you increase your chance of diarrhea by 75%
ice floe
the only one, depending on where you live. never the best.
anarchist-putinist
yet it is the best !! but not theirs.
usually i don't like government ads, but that made me smile.
normally a boomer trying to do a "young" thing to look cool, i find it cringe.
but i must admit that this one, i find it good!
hahaha epic dubé
[deleted]
[  
for those who don't understand the joke
i feel old and disconnected because i understand absolutely nothing about this post
even if the meme was pretty dead for a while, i laughed
i thought it was a deep fake 😅
i thought he was going to justify his colleague fitzgibbon.
no kidding, nice ad. simple and efficient. well done to the government comms team.
first off, hat, first time i see such a successful caq ad
then people on twitter saw there the sign of white supremacy (the 👌but with the w visible) just to make you lose faith in humanity i thought i would share this fun fact
ah ben caline good !!
this is the nazi white grrrr sign (without joke some people in the states have claimed that this sign means white supremacy).
my 17 year old daughter found it really good. i guess this is a good indicator.
u / savevideo
and as a youngster, really great as a pub. short and sweet and don't try too hard to be “* cool for the kids *”.
health !
i find that funny !
it is obviously aimed at young people, monuncles, don't worry you have already been vaccinated or terminated to "trust your immune system"
it is that statistically, one realizes currently that the young "millennials" are not in a great hurry to be vaccinated. to be in a school where there are young people, i can tell you that it took a lot of effort to make them respect the distance and the mask.
the gesture he makes is a game where if i look at the hole you made with your fingers, you owe me a fortune. if i don't look at the hole and manage to put myself in it, i'm the one who gives you a bine. it's silly, but it's cheap!
i like the government to use a little humor in such a serious subject. it adds a little sparkle to the light we start to see at the end of the tunnel.
it hasn't been that bad. we let go of the petate.
astiff what made me laugh !! i rarely like quebec pub, but she ... haahhahaah
it's perfect, great idea!
seems to me that his shoes are noisy. otherwise yes, nice ad! vaccinate me!
he definitely has a deep fried meme with an 👌 emoji and well compressed music to do here.
isn't that a symbol of a white supremacist? ;) (joke for wokies)
i find it super smart as an ad to try to reach the younger generations and encourage them to get vaccinated. well done!
i do not understand the joke, can someone explain for someone who is not up to date with the same quebecois?
edit: nvm it was already explained, sorry
i do not understand. since when did we give bine when we fiat this sign the haha
(i am 23 years old)
the person who made the sound of his footsteps is in a tabarnak pocket. ok the ad is good but god
wow fantastic pub seriously funny
it's uncomfortable but just enough, it's not overdone 👌🏻
it's still thinking well since it's targeted for young people lol
ok the one has it is cool
brilliant
soon: sheeeesh this vaccine is bussin’
wtf
i love! i said exactly that to a few friends who were a little hesitant. it worked.
if it's shared and discussed, goal achieved.
u / savevideo
well done to dubé.
that it lends itself to the games here is just okay and the move to do in the context. like the idea of vaccinating in parks if necessary.
very well.
dubé stun gigachad who believed it
i don’t get it. can someone explain?
i can confirm that my 2nd dose hurts more than a bin and that i have had the taste of dying since yesterday. but i still approve of the ad. good work !
i played this en masse with my two guys. but what makes me uncomfortable is that the same is used by white suprematists and it pisses me off in esti.
édittte: not sure it's * exactly * the same sign. we put our hands on our thighs. anyway it's been a while.
not aware of it! it's a nazi sign the ok with the hand!
(seriously, there are really people who cross that. legit.)
you have to be seriously fragile to see it other than an advertisement aimed at young people to convince them to be vaccinated.
i'm really old and it existed in my younger days too ... and i had never heard of it having any connection with white supremacy ... it's kidding silliness ...
the timing of the ad at the same time as this article is delicious: [ ] (
cringeeeeee
i wonder how much the marketing company charged for this ad…
i am for the vaccine and got vaccinated, but it is false. like many, i had a cold sweat and great muscle pain. not to mention the risks associated with the astra zeneca. yes it is worth it, yes it is necessary to be vaccinated but it is wrong to say that it is no worse than a bine!
a chance his hand was pointing downwards otherwise his would have been racist ...
edit: /s
i don't know if it's because i'm old or because i'm too close to american politics, but i just see the white power symbol. i had to read a tweet which explains that it is a “bin”.
i don't know if they just show up on [twitch.tv] ( but there were not worse a few months ago regarding cannabis use, but especially those about domestic violence.
it would be cringe if he said "yeeeet" and "litt". but this is a little nod to young people. i find it well done!
lol that's time well spent op, you made me laugh!
credible in the job, worse sexy in the clubs, me i have them short on the top, worse back long ...
best post of the day!
legault really reminds me of someone but i can't find who ...
but what a horror. ark. cursed images. take your upvote and slacken off
miss manon, i think she would wear it the best
legault is the most credible.
and..?
hahaha wow, this is good! the two on the right are disgusting: kéven plamondon and franco di lego
gnd with a length ?! quebec solidaire majority 2022
hahahahahahsh that of legault it smells like old cigarette butch with a background of urine and sweat typical of a walmart in place desormeaux on a beautiful saturday.
it's stylish
it's the 'cut' curfew
françois legault with a longueuil haircut ... what a terrible day to have eyes
lol
hey the pspp cut, it looks legit bin!
legault looks like the guy who will go and kiss his sister whenever he gets the chance
the only cup that needs to make a comeback here is the stanley cup.
longueuil, the florida of quebec.
catherine fournier will resign immediately after her election as mayor of longueuil!
i saw tons of girls with cuts like this on tinder. so it's back, but not for men.
she is making a comeback, wait for it! lol
someone do justin trudeau plz
legault do be lookin’ kinda fresh tho 🤔
super the political compass op
yes. just yes
okay now i want one
hahahahahah i spat my coffee when i saw this
... why do i find that a longueuil haircut on nadeau suits him .. not worse?
take my upvote and bag 'your camps lol
it is about time!
colisse!
ark sacrament!
i have a mullet
i have uncles who haven't cut their hair much lately due to covid, it looks a bit like that. not able to look at them.
esti post de cave just the orto thinks about it, long live quebec
from the front a romeo, a real bum from the back ...
franco new
eugene dans the walking dead
joselito michaud
scuse but the granny at french vanilla was good at criss.
best post for some time.
it is legault hood.
normand d'amour?
no need. she already wears a mustache
> "it's true that i don't get sunburned on the back, and i don't have to tie my hair when i use a circular saw," notes sharon daniels.
i'm convinced, it takes me one with me.
longueuil is poor laval.
you think it's girls.
yeah, check your tinder settings, you probably have to check hetero
with a touch of josélito michaud
i don't know why but my eyes absolutely want to see manon with a resplendent longueuil
lol
and fabien cloutier
"hey, stephen, you speak french, right?"  
"oh yes, i speak french"
isn't it "to be high"?
r/trouduction
attands… does weed no name exist in canada?
bone apple tea
[hehehe, get got ...] (
hey man, are you tempted to come and get it tonight?
if the translation was done after consuming the said product, it is a guarantee of quality!
“to become frozen”?
half parsley!
for a tit buzz
the yellow hue is off but solid work none the less.
it is exclusively exclusive as a product!
is it any good?
weed: to gler
i eat children
that’s all i know in french
i know this isn’t real, but i want it to be.
the guy was high when he wrote it
ok i love it. i work in translation, and sometimes i see not worse but that? just .... wow! i don't even know how a pre-translation system could have given that!
for getting got
well nice french guys
"to get obtained"
it's been hard in esti ...
calisse d'anglos without respect. 🤦🏻‍♂️
/ jcmyrand
it would be a mistake to get erections!
"to gain height" on google translate
"to get up" on bing translate english
"to get high" on bing translate french (canada)
"to get high" on deepl
i like to get obtained. sounds stoner, like.
not
you wouldn't want to touch that anyway.
it must also be worse than baloney
i don't think it's legal tho
bah, it's not that bad! -david goodenough
when legalization first happened there were highway signs in ontario that said "ne conduisez pas gelé".
dude, a joke. the "badly translated" is one of the facets of this joke there.
in host
harper's erections are hard these days
deepl the real mvp
"to be made up" that sounds good i think
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°) deepl
we raise a hand high for bing canada!
[apparemment oui]( en ontario
i taste like a baloney sandwich with mustard because of you
don't drive frozen
i still see it in mississauga
but again, no quebec option. in quebec, it seems more "to freeze", but it really depends on where you come from.
better than getting shot down anyway
i must have looked at the date thinking it was an old forgotten meme ....
bin non osti, is there really no name weed? is he a legal seller?
nah, miracle whip man
hmmm with a little lettuce
[deleted]
check the rich with his greenery
that was the goal 😊
a 2020 snowman
she.
i laughed, but it's a bit sad.
merry christmas anyway! <3
snowman.
[deleted]
* scp-173 escaped from containment *
in gatineau, i could make a lawn man for you.
the guy: kill me please!
f's in cat for the snowman, sacrament!
criss how depressing that!
mud man
omg i laughed too hard at this... then cried
olaf ate a nasty steal 😮
that's a real real snowman. big, strong, lonely, but unifying. gathering all the snow from the 3 streets around his home.
suffered from covid ....;)
my three balls be like
drowned joel
mr hanky the christmas turd.
c'est "hanky the christmas poo" de south park...
i know where that snowman is. i drove by it today and it look like it took a shotgun to the head. it’s in lachine by a cemetery.
there is no snow?
i remember a time when there was snow at christmas ...
“it's going to be fine”
olaf is smoking meth
not good man, "bad man"
legault also has power over the weather.
i am in boston and i use translate
only the wokes are happy not to have a white christmas.
☹️
bonhomme telement 2020!
come on he fucking 13 ajd what the fuck
noyeux joël
i liked him better when he was * cool *
there is no mask tsssssss
it's not that bad, but it lacks a bit of poo.
kill me....
r/therewasanattempt
it's not enough on fire in my opinion
mdrr
i laughed in esti, thank you!
yes, exactly the title of the work.
it's funny but it's not funny! ;)
merry christmas!!
fates vaux reshercshes
so fake, rain in quebec on christmas is totally normal.
fake news reeeeeee.
oh god oh fuck
it's not confinement, it's a moral contract to isolate yourself!
i think he's already dead.
f
big f.
f
f
f
> and above all proud to be a quebecer.
and we are proud that you are a quebecer.
hats off to you.
especially for the last sentence, you are as much quebeckers as everyone here. let no one tell you otherwise!
congratulation ! you have something to be proud of yourself :)
who's cutting onions here?!
congratulations to you! yes there are a lot of programs and possibilities here, but it represents an incredible effort for immigrant families to make it happen. we are lucky to have this kind of family who choose us to set up shop.
well done, it's not easy to succeed in these conditions. very proud to be a quebecer and to count you among us.
what a beautiful touching story! thank you for sharing! congratulation!
your message warms my heart. one thing is certain, we must continue to fight so that more and more successes like yours are achievable!
:)
congratulation! 🧑‍🎓🥳🍾
ps: i'm happy to see someone who understands that we can remain faithful to their land of origin while being proud of their news. for me, it is not in the origin that it happens but in the heart. bravo again!
welcome to your home. quebecers were not all born in quebec. there are some who have to travel a bit before they get home.
i'm really glad it seems to be going well for you. it's really reassuring to see a successful immigration story like yours! i think we make a good effort to be welcoming.
thank you for making us your home! welcome home friend!
criss it touches me! i am happy for you. you are at home here!
welcome home .... welcome home!
<3
❤️
i salute you.
it is heartwarming, indeed. : 3
we are happy to have you among quebecers too!
gg! it's heartwarming to read a text like that.
thank you for contributing to our beautiful society.
wholesome! i hope you have a great day during your graduation, that's a source of pride.
congratulation. it is heartwarming to see that at some point our system is working.
what are you graduating in?
congratulation!!
wow
welcome home!
hey congratulations :)
in quebec, we are generous; we don't want anyone to be deprived of the benefits of living in quebec.
yessir you're the best!
wow that's cool to read! :) if i can be curious what state is the city / region now? ravaged or rebuilt? spared from direct war?
no federal support in all of this?
otherwise it's a beautiful story all that! personally, i am 100% for all immigration. complement border open even.
this is the real beauty of quebec.
all united under one flag. wherever you come from. ♥ ️
no need to thank quebec, buddy. you were welcome, once you arrived, you were at home and the rest, you made it happen. congratulations on your studies!
well done! your family must be proud of you. :)
welcome home!
bravo for your studies!
congratulations to all the family who are striving to build a better province!
_pics or it didn't happen_
ok just make her stay please ...
cool! now give half of your salary in taxes and levies so that its socialist subsidies and insurance are profitable for the province!
this is the goal of emigrants, to keep our economy going.
downvoting won't change the facts.
《pierre falardeau:
me the world, i don't want to know where they come from
i want to know where they are going
the world, they can be white, yellow, black, mauve, blue with yellow-orange peaks
i care
if they want to fight with me, it's my brothers.》
dear op, it is heartwarming that our company has been able to offer something decent to your family and that your situation has improved a lot. thank you for contributing to our society and for being grateful. you are my brothers and my sisters.
what warms my heart the most is the fact that you consider yourself true quebecers (with good reason). never let anyone tell you that you are not. for me, you are as much native quebecers (in terms of values) as those who claim to be (genetically).
quebec is being treated unfairly as a racist these days. i believe that what the majority of the people want are success stories of integrating newcomers. it is not a question of standardizing values 100%, but simply of maintaining societal cohesion and avoiding the ghettoisation of newcomers (which is problematic and partly results from poor reception and integration strategies) .
good continuity to the whole family and thank you for contributing to our diversity! quebec in the 21st district is multicultural, even in the regions. i live in baie-comeau and we have more and more newcomers; it's very refreshing and i love the diversity that develops.
i'm glad that there is a nice consensus around this feeling.
we want diversity, inclusion, culture and difference.
our vietnamese, algerian, haitian, lebanese, french, romanian brothers and sisters who are quebecers like all of us !!
ta ldoi *
"lord, the air is dry here! 🥲 "
but go elsewhere if you are not happy in your little shit life, my dear. if the socialist bothers you, the states will welcome a trumpist like you with open arms ... good riddance ... and above all ... but above all ... good luck when you get sick
this is not the goal just for immigrants, it is the goal of the socialist-ish system as a whole: you receive when you need, you contribute when you are enabled. that's it.
you whine about social programs but don't realize how much they help poor immigrants.
and look, now i pay for your medical bills, the roads you use and the education of you / your children
emigrants? 🤔
look no further, we found the village idiot!
as a priest of the church of pierre falardeau, i approve of this quote! i always thought, before i even knew he had said it, that it was this criterion that mattered the most. for me, but also for many other quebecers. that our nationalism was not ethnic at the base, but cultural and historical.
first time i "hear" the one ahah.
nah dude, it's been a long time since i received more government aid for anything, i earn too much according to their salary branches ... i will even add that i pay the studies out of my pocket without loans and scholarships
i can't believe it is insulting to restaurant owners.
at least one restaurant in my area has made a special easter take-out box to empty the fridges and not waste so much food while ensuring an income. it's super popular and this owner should be so inspired.
at the same time, instead of tapping on the government, you should watch champions like dan marino .... he "single handly" shut down the region on his own ... but tsais, fuck legault eh ...
no wonder the staff aren't coming back. i am doing an internship in a residential dining room, and if i am offered something permanent, i will take it, and i will not break my head to go back to restaurants as long as the situation is not stable. i don't want to have to fill out another unemployment claim because the government does a 180 ° in 24 hours.
this is the winning formula at legault!
it's still a gamble to open a restaurant at the moment.
since the start of the pandemic, i have been saying how difficult it has been for the tourism industry, but the poor restaurateurs seriously cry, i hurt for them. being in the shoes of an employee or a restaurant owner right now shouldn't be easy. courage to all who are affected.
why did that person throw away the food? couldn't it have been given to those in need? sorry i'm not from quebec and i'm unaware of the context.
once the majority of the population will be vaccinated at the end of the summer, i hope that we will all get up and put on our panties if legault does not want to lift his confinement.
(i'm not saying to remove all the precautionary measures, but hug it won't show the world we love!)
if everyone had stayed at home quiet from the start, if the borders had been closed from the start, if we hadn't bawled to bring back the poor little wealthy tourists caught in quarantine in china saying that chinese sanitary measures were totalitaires, we wouldn't be there.
you want to make your big, spoiled babies, you don't want to discipline yourself, well take the tabarnak consequences.
it is easy to impose arbitrary decisions on others when it is them and not us who are paying the price.
hi, chef here, it's not just that. the young people want to be able to work in the kitchens because of the mask. personally, i wear it and i don't worry about it any more than it does, but the kids don't like it much, and i understand it in a way. when you start doing 90 degrees in a kitchen, running around, with your mask sticking everything in front of you, you ask if his $ 13 an hour pti is worth all that stuff there.
[deleted]
the restaurateurs can not declare this to insurance?
forgot: the caq announces $ 750 million in subsidies to a foreign company. and $ 500,000 for restaurateurs in the province
got me picked up again, but the big food chains are reaping what they sow. not like half of the ingredients aren't already going in the trash either ...
no it does not destroy the economy, most people did not go to small restaurants, but to large chains that can bounce back without problems.
it would be time for the industry at large to revise its priorities in order to be able to resume its place. especially retail, which has looked a bit for its own downfall.
the most pitiful game is getting really tough right now.
the reality is that we should have waited a week and see if the trend continued, there are plenty of restaurateurs who haven't made this stupid mistake.
i think the restaurant owner who complains on twitter are just bad business people, we haven't been screwed to adapt to the new condition of the market. there are new businesses that have opened in the middle of a pandemic and that are making a lot of money right now and that will surely close in part once we return to '' normal ''.
no mercy for the small boss personally many of his bosses are bad employers who make life more difficult for their employees.
half of the employees do not come back as said.
[deleted]
it should be ok to eat but like you don't stay to drink / the bar isn't open. its c my opinion!
as long as we remember that it was not the covid that ruined the economy, but the government.
if you're not ready to take the risks, you weren't meant to be a boss.
if only there was a system to sell food without a restaurant welcoming customers.
maybe some restaurateurs should learn to manage their risks and purchases based on demand and risk?
i would be mortally discouraged, there is reason to want to creak the keys in the door ... which many have already done and will do ...
and as we destroy lives? it saves lives! oh, and by the way: it will be up to you little kids to fix the economy and suffer the consequences for the rest of your lives but don't forget, it saves lives!
i care about many sections of the population in these times of crisis but restaurateurs are a long way off the top of the list, lol.
> mais tsais, fuck legault hein ...
it's not mutually exclusive. it's possible to blame both, either marino for being a ham wafer or legault for choking and deconfining too early with predictable results.
i think that at this point, the government should stop relying on the fact that the population will respect the regulations. it just takes a handful to screw it up
yeah, no. everyone thought that legault was deconfining too early except precisely the pogos like marino. the deconfinement started at the start of the third wave for heaven's sake.
come on he's a danny boy cave but he's got a wide back.
news flash there will always be cellars, jasons for talk, how many hatches in schools because of the aeration of mard (and that we do not want to tackle this subject because it will be quite a budget).
is gatineau also his fault?
this is his plan to revive the economy!
[deleted]
it is also a gamble not to open it. when you're in the red with the pandemic, even 3-4 weeks of "luck" with an open dining room can keep you afloat.
indeed! i know a manager of a bistro who was pushed behind his back by his employees to reopen. he didn't want to and held his own. he is very happy about it now!
when it's made a gamble to have a restaurant ... the guy who opens does it because he needs the money too.
exactly. everyone was crying for the restaurants to be reopened. legault does it and there the scientists cry out for them to be shut down. no matter what legault does, the world will cry. the alternative to yoyoing is to keep everything closed indefinitely. the restaurateurs must have known very well that it was risky to open at this time, but they took the risk. it's boring for them, but the alternative is that they're going to be closed until the summer.
yeh i had just opened a restaurant in st-laurent when the covid hit .. all lost and i owe a lot to the bank now ... feelsbad timing of marde
"chalice in the dustbin" is figurative, even though the restaurateur donates it to charity, it remains that it is he who spent this money and that he has no return on it
you're stuck on the throw? it doesnt matter where the food goes, he's still out of 8k$ worth of food he's never going to see again.
is he supposed to pay employees to prepare the food on top of having no revenues since there's no customers?
[deleted]
martyrs gonna mart... anyway.
giving food away would lower the price of food and a capitalist society wouldn't want that because since the value of food goes down, you need to fire employees in order to make the same profit 🤷‍♂️
in a funny way, because of our economy, giving food is putting more people in a situation were don't can't have enough money to buy food....
same everywhere i believe. restaurants arent allowed to give away food. several (weak) reasons. it is competing with the industry, it is not prepared for consumption, and they are not retail grocers, food standards, etc etc. plus trying to find sufficient place is difficult. big grocers like iga could step in and buy it for credit of they were charitable.......but that takes effort too. canadians dont generally pay for the food, they pay for all the logistics and demand around the food. look at any farmers vegetable field, and you will see 50% of the crop left to rot because it is imperfect. the restaurants sell service more than food. its sink or swim and they have been again told to stop swimming.
at the end? at first in my case. if in july we actually vaccinated more than 70% of the population with a dose and we are not allowed to see people on private land, i went to the assembly myself.
yep, but if the majority of the population is vaccinated, we end up with a situation that is completely different from what we have now, also ... we are confined because the majority of the population is not vaccinated. ..
strange to write this in a post that discusses the impact of legault's too rapid deconfinement.
we would be in the same criss of must today ...
being myself a young person, as you say, who worked in a restaurant when it closed a few months ago and who now works in a grocery store, i have not observed any "young person" who refuses to put on the mask. of all the times a mask was a problem (i won't target anyone) it was older generations that were the source.
there are people who have short memories. before the covid they were already complaining that no one wanted to do their jobs at slack pay.
there are just too many restaurants, it's not super complicated to understand. it was already an issue 5 years ago, it's not a new problem.
since i received the pcu, i have never been able to get up from my couch. i have bed sores, my family abandoned me, my fish died. why did you do this to me trudeau
i think complaining about bs / pcu is easy and satisfying. but i still wonder how to motivate someone to work in jobs that are not super interesting and with a reasonable salary. schedule flexibility or work-family consolidation ect. because choosing to do nothing with no money for doing nothing surely hides more of the problem than "young people don't want to work" ect.
it's a bit annoying to always see entrepreneurs who have smes as crosseurs
there is no manpower to meet the demand.
a mcdonald's near me offers 16 / h + evening bonus + $ 100 / week if you show up at all your shifts.
to transfer meatballs, it starts to be paid well.
i work for a large insurance brokerage firm, we pay very well. virtually unable to find labor. in addition, we offer training to obtain the necessary permits for the profession.
to come back to mcdo, if someone works 40 hours a day, that makes him 18.50 / hour
downvote me for all i care, but it's not worth more than that.
i have been working in restaurants for ~ 10 years.
little secret for you: the restaurants want the strict minimum of staff. it allows them to be able to overwork the staff to save money.
but not just that!
being in a shortage of staff makes it possible to show “pity” in front of the clientele in order to look good even when everything is not badly average. “scuse us, we lack staff! yes yes come apply, but we will probably not call you back ”.
low birth rate for several decades, unemployment rate similar to precovid, a late-night job that no one likes, people increasingly aware that the minimum wage has barely budged compared to the cost of living and therefore want better. it bothers me how people 'tunnel vision' all over the place. even with the current minimum wage, you earn more money than the pku. of course it's nice to make money effortlessly, but it's not difficult either with experience and good research to find significantly better than the minimum wage, eg call center at banks like desjardins offering 23- $ 27 an hour.
imagine a problem where there are several causes which each add a little oil to the fire.
1.pcre
2.may salary
3.mard condition
4. inflexible schedule like "we need a student who works during the day" and sunday until midnight.
5.hyperinflation which makes the supply want a better salary.
6.fear of engaging in a job that can disappear overnight if daddy legault gets angry and rethinks, especially since we are in the ideal season for that.
7.low immigration
8. hyper-saturated sectors such as restaurants.
9.etc.
take one off and you've got a ton left to sort out. worse, the unemployment rate is 6.4% in quebec in august and we cannot expect someone who is between 2 jobs paid $ 20 + per hour to lower himself to a minimum wage job either. .
tuka, keep blaming la pcre les patrons et good luck.
it's more of a big set of circumstances where:
1) entrepreneurs are rewarded fiscally where employees are not, because they contribute to the economy;
2) anyone can become an entrepreneur (that's not a criticism);
3) after the baby boomer generation, couples stopped having so many children;
4) capitalism is based on an idea of eternal expansion. to make more and more profits, more and more workers, consumers and resources are needed. it can't work on a finite planet with finite resources. we are running into a wall where there will not be enough consumers available (and on top of that, they are losing * buying power *, with inflation, stagnant wages, etc.) and not enough workers. available to produce the quantity of products / services that would lead to increased profits forever.
as a result, there are too many jobs available, because there are a lot of entrepreneurs, for the number of potential candidates. this situation creates a competition between employers: those who can give good conditions to their employees can recruit * the pick of the crop * and those who cannot afford (or refuse) to match the conditions that the employees want, well. , they find no employees. it's simple.
little bit of a, little bit of b.
[deleted]
interestingly, about 80% of the population of quebec work in the service sector. it might be time to revise our priorities.
source (at the bottom of the table): [ : //qe.cirano.qc.ca/theme/marche-travail/population-active/tableau-repartition-population-active-selon-secteur-dactivite-2020).
why not do like the nordic countries? remove tips and increase salaries. so no more labor issues and no more trouble knowing how much to tipper.
the real reason is the fact that we have too many businesses, most of canada is made up of small businesses because everyone is lucky enough to start them.
there are companies that offer good service to employees and still have a problem with schedules.
props to the excellent pumpui who recently advertised a cook position at $ 25 / hour with benefits for a restaurant with barely 20 seats. maybe it works to make some cheap good food criss.
onlyfans also convinced several barmaids and waitresses not to return to their old jobs…
it's a bit more complicated than that from my point of view.
we have more and more government programs based on taxable income, so if you increase your taxable income, you lose benefits. it's a hidden tax that i don't expect everyone to be aware of, but which comes out as "come on, i'm earning more but seems to me like i'm not richer than before, that must be because of the rich again ". you put that with the real tax and you realize all that. when we had the cpe tax, i did a quick calculation and put the maximum in my rrsps allowed me to seek 70-80% via the tax return, but also with the federal child benefits , cpe tax, return from private daycare, etc. admit it, i'm in a high bracket, but i'm not getting a lot of government benefits either. do you think that families who switch to many and happy do how to feed 9 children with 1 average salary?
what is the relationship? the report is that people have realized that working for $ 20 / hr is like working for $ 5 / hr, even if they don't explain it. we can thank pcu and pcre for that.
another point in relation, if you work for yourself, it is a virtual non-taxable salary. so when you cook yourself, you're doing a restaurant job. your bill of $ 60 for mccroquette trios, if you're taxed at 70%, well that comes to $ 200 in taxable income. when you finish your basement or pass the mower, same business. so that means that if i hire a guy to shovel my driveway in the winter, i work to generate 16 kids, i have 4 left after tax that i pay to the snow plow and he has 1 left after tax. to increase the standard of living of the snow plow by 1 kid, i have to produce 16. same thing for the cook and the guy who washes the dishes. we punish those who produce our wealth and we encourage people to do what they are not specialized in.
so this is what is happening in our subconscious. we tell ourselves that eating in a restaurant is too expensive without really understanding it, so restaurants must lower the prices. at the same time, they cannot raise wages because their margin is low.
the solution is very simple. go back to 1915 when there was no income tax and income-based benefits would have to be abolished. yeah but the rich!?! 1. that's why we would increase property taxes. the rich have legal structures in place to avoid paying income tax, but they have palaces all across the country. businesses incorporate in places with the lowest tax, but they have offices all over the place. you can't hide your 3rd vacation home in the bahamas, unless it's in the bahamas. this is the solution for tax evasion, not putting millions into hiring people to investigate. as a bonus, it encourages the efficient use of resources and rewards the creation of wealth with resources. we are saving the planet at the same time!
so in the end, if i want to eat an equivalent of 1 kid, i work for 1 kid and i pay the restaurant 1 kid. the guy who gets lots of government checks would get a little less, but at least his time at work would really pay him what he thinks. restaurant owners will see more traffic because taking a st-hub quarter of a breast in take-out would no longer be a big luxury.
they were talking about it yesterday at 98.5. there are many positions available but especially to the public. the same places where people have to get yelled at and fight with customers all the time for all the reasons in the world and that discouraged people from applying. there was someone who talked about having voluntarily closed his vineyards because there were always problems with the customers and could not bear to be complained about after anything.
put zero tolerance in your business + flexibility on certain things (like a little stool behind the cash register / a book when it's quiet) and people will come!
holy shit all r / quebec okay. i am moved
ironic anyway.
in broad daylight, when “normal” people are at work, economics and entrepreneurship pundits are debating on reddit.
not just the owners. all the cellars on facebook too
\ * me \ *: "i am for that, better wages!"
\ * inflation \ *: "i'm about to end your career"
i'm a barber pi the owners charge $ 300 per week, $ 1200 per month, yeah, i'm going to continue styling from my private studio at home ...
it's anecdotal but the mcdo here pays $ 18 / h
the problem is that the big companies pay 0 taxes while the small businesses are scolded by the government.
fkn amazon which makes billions pays less than my small company, no shit we don't have the money to pay better wages, when we can't even get paid ourselves ... not to mention that we need more mtn employees because of the covid to do the housework and make sure everything is cleaned well.
look at how in bc smes all got grants of $ 10,000 to $ 30,000 from the govt during the shutdown. our government? loans loans loans ..... and more loans .... and we wonder why smes do not have money for salaries .... honestly the question we must ask is how is it 'there are smes that are still open after all this shit.
can someone translate plz 🥲
would be time to stop the tip
create companies like apple. you will see that the economy will be better ...
ahh yes
give the workers the woks .... this is the way!
well the smes cannot increase wages in risking everything, the big companies they can without problem
edit: the owner of the mcdonald's next door paid his employees to negativate me?
quebec lags behind in productivity (gdp / hours worked) and catering is one of the sectors with the lowest productivity.
to increase this productivity, if you have a low-cost model, you can look at automation like in japan. otherwise, you have to produce enough value that someone is willing to pay for the time that is put on what you have achieved.
70/30
honestly, i find both extremes, including op, arrogant enough to think that we have the truth when we live in a climate of uncertainty and confusion. but what is clear is that at the moment things are not going well.
therefore i expect employers to make additional efforts in terms of the wages offered and the government to stop funding abusers of the system / end programs that were supposed to support in emergency situations only. we must at least return to something balanced to better address the problem in a serious and informed manner. it is currently possible to work in complete safety, we know this virus well, so no reason to finance a luxury bs. it goes beyond the idea of the social safety net and it impoverishes the middle class / majority of us.
exact👍
we are in a capitalist system so employers must follow supply and demand. if you don't find people you offer higher just than in time you find some. if your business doesn't make enough money to pay the right salary, it's boring, but you go bankrupt. this is the capitalist system and the government should not interfere.
how do you want to compete with the "working" conditions of the pcu / pcre. 0 hours of work, no supervisor, no schedule, no need for transport. an employer's biggest competition for these employees shouldn't be the government paying you for nothing.
i mean 13 $ / h is the minimum and it is already ben correct. if the restaurants have to pay even more than that, there is a good cut that will have to dismiss people or go bankrupt.
pay not enough? there are people in the restaurant business who make over $ 100,000 a year ... i'm not talking about mcdonald's but a waiter in a mid-high-end restaurant ...
but even at mcdonald's you can go get $ 16 an hour which is not so bad for someone who is studying or who has 0 education ...
in addition, profit margins in catering are really crap, if there is one area in which i would not want to invest it is this one: renting premises, buying industrial kitchen tools, the sets, the food, the food losses, the mapaq which comes to do its turn, the bureaucracy, the staff, alcohol more expensive than the market price ... plenty of expense for not so much income.
having said that, you want wages in the restaurant business to increase? ok but the plate will go up too and having traveled to several countries in the west it is already more expensive here than elsewhere, which is why i don't go there too often.
“yes, but i took all the risks! "
dude, you got a loan from a bank. if you fail, you probably go into personal bankruptcy if you personally guaranteed the loan, yes, but you won't be worse off than your minimum wage employees anyway. your "risk" is to find yourself in the same socio-economic class where the employees you want to exploit are currently located.
you don't work hard because you took a risk, you work hard because you want the rewards of your business success. share more of your business success with your employees and maybe they'll want to work with you too. otherwise, they absolutely don't owe you their labor.
labor shortage was in full swing in 2018.
marde wages are a very small part of the labor problem puzzle in my opinion. i have been serving for 5-6 years, never have i ever seen difficulty in hiring people for the room, host, bussboy, waiter, bartender. we were able to find a server, we made $ 30-40 an hour in service, there is something deeper wrong.
almost all the fast food outlets are closed by my house at night now. it makes 5 easy years that it is like this.
very true
too many entrepreneurs all run in fact.
we see the result of a bubble where for a few years an absurd number of students have moved in this direction.
[deleted]
except these days, it's pretty much all stores looking for employees. 5 years ago, did mcdonald's and tim hortons close their dining rooms for lack of staff? are you too many grocery stores, dollorama and home improvement stores? we were even offered jobs for the elections by going to vote, they also have a hard time having enough staff to count the ballots and so on.
having said that, i don't know if it's the impact of pcru or something else. there may be many people who have reoriented themselves during the pandemic. maybe companies like to have fewer staff and blame poorer service on something else.
montreal is the city with the most restaurants in north america after new york, in proportion to the population, it was to arrive eventually
it is not mentioned enough but yes. there is cleaning to do in the restaurants.
100%. i watched for fun when i was young and i worked at tim hortons, there were 3 in town. now, for a population increase of 10,000 inhabitants during this time, we have reached 9 ... and there is more competition at tim with mcdonald's which sells coffee too, no more mcdos ... that's right. foolish.
oh yeah
it's big brain time
propaganda is one hell of a drug
this is quality meme.
i can't wait to see the intellectual gymnastics of pro-covid.
i'm going to run out of popcorn soon 🍿
they should be ashamed of themselves. as far as i'm concerned, causing an outbreak by being anti-measure is criminal negligence.
it was just missing the trump 2024 flags to make the event the festival of stupidity.
the one on the curfew was no worse
thats whats happens when people gather in groups
it's a bit of a non-argument this same. several people say that there is no point in health measures, so whether or not there are outbreaks it affects their speech.
ps: i don't agree with these people, but i understand their arguments.
almost surprising!
we must confine because hospitals do not provide
nothing is done to improve the hospital system in 1 year
we continue to confine because the hospital system does not provide
mémé? so close to glory
sanitary measures are always the fault of those who are for sanitary measures. sanitary measures are never, never, never the fault of those against sanitary measures. it is also simple.
a nice bunch of fools.
this meme only makes sense if you follow the logic that the health measures are caused by the pandemic situation.
this is by no means the case, considering that we have a similar situation (even better, counting the vaccines) than last year, and yet we have a fucking curfew.
the measures are judged according to the arbitrary decisions of the government. so, according to opponents, this same makes no sense since the measures are not caused by the pandemic situation but by purely arbitrary and above all political government decisions.
ah worse the meme is fuckall funny, but how it laughs at the pro-measures favorite scapegoat, obviously it hit the lurkers on / hot /.
edit: before being called an anti-mask conspiratorial, know that i am against curfew first and foremost, and that i am simply able to understand opposing views without insulting them first. surprising, isn't it?
you idiots. serious meth head to marde.
there are surely no outbreaks in the metro every day or at walmart or costco. *sigh*
apart from the fact that they bring us all down, not just themselves
it's simple here. you are against excessive measures you government, you have to explain with figures and a thesis why you find that it does not make sense.
you are in favor, you just have to say yes and call those who do not ask questions a covidot and conspi.
look at the total number of deaths in quebec since january. it's going pretty well compared to other years. in addition, the number of overdoses is probably greater than usual. a 75% increase in bc. they had around 2,000 overdoses and 1,600 possible deaths from covid.
i'm not saying that things are going well in hospitals. it's been 30 years since it's loaded.
it's cool to ridicule people who question the government. it's a whole thick gang ...
i'm sure many are there for wolf-seal reasons, but not all. i find it true that our freedom has taken a hit and that some sanitary measures are exaggerated, some have no valid proof, but will leave serious consequences for children ...
society is dividing, so there are people with their heads on their shoulders, but a different opinion who are put in the same boat as those who think that the earth is flat or that covid does not exist, or whatever. .
in india, the covid is currently hitting very hard. don't you find it selfish that here we are giving doses of vaccines to low-risk people who already have anti-bodies instead of leaving doses to help others?
on the other hand, i am an esti of selfish pcq i have friends who come to see me dehord at our place in my course.
it is now that our parents are vaccinated and cannot even have supper with them ...
lots of people don't follow the rules to the letter and put down those who are against certain rules.
the lobbyists for modera and pfizer are super transparent and honest people. they are not there to make billions, but to save the planet!
they could do like volvo in 1959 with seat belts, or jonas salk with the polio vaccine patent, but no ...
downvote!
there is no more covid in city and metro buses but hey, it relieves the weak of spirits to find scapegoats.
and another sheep at the slaughterhouse!
those who criticize critical thinking are really as worse than the conspirators (the real ones, not the ones who just ask questions)
seriously, you're gringe that nonsense. protests are important and it went well for a 100k protest.
your outbreak of covid is damn stiff, it doesn't change anything, until everyone is vaccinated even with a huge drop in cases and all the factors flat or down there is no change.
oh no, 40 out of 100,000 people have had the flu to protect our rights and express double standards and abuse of power. this is really crazy! / s
it's almost funny.
oh yes
it's big brain time
everything is propaganda if you’re stupid enough.
both camps believe the other is the victim of propaganda.
what intellectual gymnastics? i am not at all surprised that there is one or more cases in a gathering of 30,000 people, i still claim the right to assume it and to assemble
without forgetting to interfere with the vaccination campaign.
i confirm that there were flags of trump lol
trump 2020*
there is like no causal link between the 2nd and the 3rd squares
it affects their speech pcq the government will just tighten the screw because of their bullshit
wait until you see a "cross-pole", you're going to fail
there is no one who is for the mask or for the measures that pisses us off but there are those who understand that it is a necessary evil and those who are too selfish to make sacrifices
umm, indeed. i know your comment is sarcastic, but no, there aren't outbreaks every day, not even every week or every month. do not let in the world which does not respect the rules. you sound like a real cellar
there is a difference between asking questions or questioning certain measures and going to demonstrate without any precaution, shouting bad luck in front of one of the largest vaccination centers in quebec, but hey ...
there is a bad difference between the world which asks questions and the world which creates an outbreak with a demo. but nice generalization champion.
the question is no! cursed selfish ...
nice generalization.
the wokes who have so-called facts without proof and those who go against basic protection measures are the ones who will be negotiated.
wolf seal, of course.
in any case, our society has nothing but itself to complain about having so many people who do not understand how vaccines work and who do not trust public institutions. it's been years since we have had a transparent government that really cares about the good of the population (by investing more in education and health). in addition, we have a very-very right government (not to say extreme right) so i won't tell you about it ...
don't be surprised if people get paranoid, they've done everything to make it that way.
do you have a source for this?
and while that was true, there's a difference between essential travel and cuckoo travel.
we can say the same thing about you following the conspiracy. the only difference is that a moron sheep
i never understood the sheep analogy.
as long as i do, they stand together and follow each other so that they can survive predators. whoever walks away from the herd is likely to be killed by a wolf.
to be a sheep would therefore be to stand and go in the same direction all together. as a society, where is the harm in that?
i apologize for taking it personal, but there is a big difference between critical thinking, freedom of expression, the right to demonstrate and to completely ignore basic barrier gestures in times of a pandemic.
while a group of people provide a nice playground for the virus, health workers have been killing themselves in trying to save lives for more than a year under conditions of stinging.
thank you vincent for your intervention and your battle against the oppressor government. let us stand up in the face of tyranny and this abuse of power. fortunately, there are people like you to fight against our violated rights and ...
totally get rid of the dead for 1 year.
i hope you will be at the demonstrations of the nursing staff who suffer from your bullshit more than that of the government for the moment ...
wait ... do you think covid is a "big flu" ?! tobacco, how is it possible to be so ignorant after more than a year? unbelievable! hahaha
> for a demonstration of 100k
[bullshit 100k](
there were about 20,000 people they (mdd) have already doubled the numbers to please you
lmao, 100k. do you really think your cause is that popular? you were barely 30k. get your head out of your ass and come back to the real world, where a lot of people die because of your selfish actions.
i find it hilarious
solution, conservative who laughs at the two?
the liberal party which pretends not to cringe but which creaks in the background.
the green party scolds the environment too so that settles the issue.
npd.
the bloc does not cry about the environment, it is more electoral.
the caq has a strong majority in quebec, so showing itself in favor of the caq's projects is a risky strategy but one which has a strong chance of paying off.
i remind you that reddit does not represent the quebec electorate, nor the few screamers who oppose everything that the caq proposes.
in the liberal party there is steven guilbeaut. problem fixed ! / s
donc npd. got it.
electoral dilemma
> losing my vote
where
> losing my vote
*sweat*
where do you get that the bloc scolds the environment?
have you read it? curator guys really? am you the only one who remembers the harper decade?
in the same category as: vote for a fundamentally sovereignist party, like qs, in the provincial elections, but vote for a fundamentally federalist in the federal elections. irony when you hold us.
the block crisscrosses the environment?
eh ben.........
not badly everyone scolds the environment if we consider the effort required, we must stop the small steps. :(
thing not to answer: yes, but quebec is the leader of ...
solution: npd
the boulder doesn't squeal about the environment it's just the 3rd link which is not green and anyway it's a provincial issue
politics is transitory. the environment is permanent
for me there are two choices. ppc or preservative. i don't like o'toole. poilievre deserves and would have been a better leader. and i fear that voting ppc will only dilute the vote and facilitate a re-election of trudeau ...
seriously, this is exactly where i am. i have read the first part of the [ipcc 2021] report (
looks like there is an elephant in the china store and no one is paying attention.
the next issue of civilizations is exactly there; millions of displaced people, famines because agriculture has to be moved to poles, fires, drying lakes, extreme cold and heat, etc. (and there are many other foreseeable consequences and unpredictable). i am for a leaders' debate exclusively on climate change. we must quantitatively measure the party platform in tonnes of co2 (even if this is a simplification).
i just fucking care for my children. of course, i must be crazy or alarmist.
which one of the gang usually has the least vote?
the ndp criss of quebec and the environment
these parties are rubbish, my party is better because of "some partisan reason".
seems to me that the choice is not difficult
* party pot lets gooooooo *
the fact that these are the 2 parties you’re looking at is quite sad lol mostly the green party
lest of problem with the ndp and the bloc ... it is by voting for one of the 2, that would guarantee a victory for the conservative ... tabanak that we are like the us ... country has 2 political parties of maarde
only one of these two parties is likely to be in the majority.
orange wave caught 2
my green candidate will make 3-4%; if i vote for him it would be to send a message to the other candidates to pay more attention to the environment. i don't think the other candidates will make a link between my green vote and quebec, so the message will "get through".
check the candidates rather than the party and vote for the one that best represents you.
i understand with the 3rd link and all, but i will not say that the bloc is crying about the environment
probably the most accurate meme i've seen since the start of the campaign
the block, come back to his comment on lws 3rd link. it was an electoral maneuver to get a couple additional votes in quebec.
the 3rd link is under provincial jurisdiction.
giant douche or crap sandwich.
are you really someone who has invested time to talk about the green party in a meme?
ah yes, as if a political party is going to be able to change our consumption and production mode when this is what must be done to save the environment.
easy for me. berhier-maskinongé, npd! all for rhb!
vert easy
no party worthwhile for the climate? i cancel my vote! (beware of the difference here, i'm not going to "stay home and complain" but officially cancel my vote)
no
let's see for the christian heritage party. 🤣
when you want to vote green but the party has no chance in your constituency and in addition their candidate in your constituency sucks: the ndp will do this this time around. (honestly, from what i understand, the bloc is not worse for the environment at all.)
do you think that we, in the other provinces, vote for them who do the most for our province? no bud. environment is more important :)
what does it mean "crisse du québec?" at what level?
definitely ppc
i knew i’d regret skipping french
option 3: the ndp who says not to scold the environment but who will keep a pipeline
the ndp awaiting its day of glory
[deleted]
really no idea who to vote for this year. i feel like canceling my vote
ndp mix of both
i can't speak french very well, but fuck this person
what better for a francophobic facebook group lol?
ben esti fond de tabarnak réjean come see it
if he does not speak with a british accent, his comment invalidates itself.
because "we are an uneducated and stammering people and forgive us for having only the raucous songs of our ancestors and the sorrow of nelligan as an answer."
often, i find that if we read the equivalent of this bashing sth towards an ethnic group or a religion, you would see the roc cry racism, and with good reason. but in this case, no problem, it's just jokes as they say ... this tolerance or acceptance annoys me more and more.
cristi, i'm tired of quebec-bashing ...
at the same time, for this kind of person, the purest french is that of france! but these admins surely do not know that the french do not have a * pure * language either ... you just have to see the anglicisms they use, or even the * verlan * ...
\*\* "obsessed with preserving" me semble plus correc
it's called racism.
translation: i don't understand why these savages of quebecers try to keep and speak their native language when they could speak a superior language like english.
ironic coming from someone who is not able to speak the queen's english :(
i am english speaking, but i know many english speakers who do not speak english well either ... the post office does not make sense.
i am chinese and sometimes i visit my friends in roc and after knowing that i live in quebec their friends say that i am really brave to live in purgatory, and they will continue to tell their "story". my boyfriend is from quebec and he has never met this kind of people at rock lol.
this is probably my number one “pet peeve”. people who say that quebecers “don't even speak french.” it is even more ridiculous when it is a unilingual person who says it.
i'm sorry for posting this on english, but, could someone please tell me about any websites or methods to studying canadian/québécois french? i would really love to understand it and be fluent in it, but unfortunately, i've only be able to find parisian french resources, that, in my opinion, don't sound similar at all to the one spoken in north america.
thank you!
i think he wants us to talk like the people of france
my hypothesis is that this person, * certified lover boy * ™, has simply never experienced any form of ** language insecurity **. its mother tongue has always been the one and only language of its ecosystem and this language is not threatened in any form.
a simplistic but applicable comparison would be people who grew up in material abundance wondering: why don't the poor pay off their credit cards in full every month? why don't the poor contribute a little to their rrsp to save a little tax?
what comforts me is that it must come from another thick osti with the equivalent of a secondary 3, so his opinion we can fuck in our collective fart
the worst thing is that many people don't care that french is dying in quebec to the point that many quebecers themselves don't care and even want its extinction.
racists.
what is unfortunate is that this kind of page can continue to exist.
put the same kind of page against jews, asians, muslims ... and it would take 1 day and it would be over.
i send the idea in reddit: how about you all going to "report" this page as being racist towards our "ethnicity" and if we are enough, it should close. we did it ? 😃
\ * cry in michèle lalonde. \ *
except the majority of quebecers are bilingual and the kind of people who say comments like this only speak one language.
obviously, everyone knows that when you are born in france, you are automatically immune to grammar mistakes.
thank you for the facebook page, it always goes back to my sovereignist fiber when sometimes i can question my ideas.
i am setting up a reminder to renew my pq membership card when it expires.
it's boring because honestly i'm proud of my culture and my province. these comments make me angry and i feel persecuted. for me, this is definitely a form of racism. if the same people made the same comments about a visible minority community, they would be demolished on social media.
can we finally ban this kind of posts there, it's tiring esti.
from the guy who is shakeaspeare's heir but still says: omg and '' you know what i am saying ''.
my french sucks, i may have to leave quebec, but this guy is just an ignorant jerk. don't let him get to you or think too many other people are like him
even for me parisian that i am it shocks me just to see the stupidity of this tweet. almost all the languages are different from the original, and ten yards is huge. we call it the accent, creole.
that would mean that in france, occitans, savosiens, provencals and picardies do not speak french well because french is that of paris? what indignity.
it even works for her. american, australian and irish are therefore not languages, accents to be protected because they are different from london english
there is nothing to understand.
ah well, he is certified. he must therefore be right.
clearly this person has never heard a french from france speak french ...
i will never understand why people take the right to say things like that when they can’t even spell québec properly !
and they don't speak french in a country with two official languages
they say all that, but they can't tell the difference between their / there / they're
i am anglophone but i believe in preserving the french language in quebec. i've always been mad when my parents say trying to protect the tongue is ridiculous
honestly there, at this point it's not even a political opinion, it's just a racist opinion
ah yes, i am sure that if we said that about preserving this or that native american language, it would be very well received ...
not to mention that this kind of eugenics of the language is absolutely disgusting. have we ever heard of accents and dialects?
the language changes and it evolves, the main thing is not the perfect grammar, it is the culture and the people that it represents.
i don't know if my comment has a place here, but i laughed a little when i saw this text.
i am french, and i love my language, whether it is spoken by parisian bobos or quebecers, with different accents and specific words.
so that a guy in english (the language with the most localities in the world thanks to the commonwealth), comes to cover quebec a little (under the pretext that they do not speak exactly the same french as me) seems to me sadly hypocritical.
here is. kisses to everyone, peace and love.
hey! we speak very well quebecois! it is the others who speak it badly!
a briton enters the chatroom...
say in an english ..
as if there was only one way to write "neighbor", "behavior", "center" ...
there are quebecers who do not have a good command of the french language, just as there are anglophones in other provinces or in the states who do not have a good command of english.
so? big deal.
it's funny to see that in a few words this person shows all the ignorance he has of quebec and its history. probably a clumsiness due to his age ie his inexperience or his lack of education or his lack of empathy either or well or well. . .
i rarely comment but what i see is a fragile human being taking his first steps in the awful game of life. it's hard to go from level one to level two. should we help him?
i am montrealer, quebecer. crisse that i hate this page, now a mentality of marde has succeeded in pitting quebecers against other quebecers ...
the french of quebec is the same since the arrival of jaque cartier, it is the french in france that has changed so our french is more french than that of the french (it's confusing i know ahah) and they use at least 5x more anglicism than we do ...
they hate us cuz they anus
literally a troll.
hey, they say the same thing about the irish "who can't speak english" etc.
i don't expect compliments from colonialist oppressors who take pleasure in being racist with anything that is not of "anglo-saxon" origin anyway.
in short, as we say so well "who eats garbage"
with this logic, we should not use seat belts in the car, because it is useless, i have already seen people wearing them and they are still dead!
"insurance is useless your house can go on fire anyway"
in fact, i notice that when i posted about the vaccine not preventing contagion, i was downvoted, saying it was anti-vax propaganda. there is hysteria in the vaccine discussion, both those who believe it's the miracle that will make everything ok in two steps, and those who believe vaccines are dangerous.
the fault makes the joke better 👏
change of relatives!
* joke, i sympathize. *
i'm glad i don't have such a person close to me.
it's sad to see that. he is about a month old, we have an acquaintance who refused to be vaccinated with her husband. he caught the virus at work. she and her child did not catch it but he did not survive the harmful effects of the virus so a sudden cardiac arrest
testing a new approach: the choice is not between taking the vaccine or not, the choice is between developing the antibodies from the vaccine or the virus ... on a sufficiently long scale, we will all catch the coronary artery, vaccinated or not. the question is whether you prefer to prepare your immune system with the vaccine, or to face the fretted moment variant.
i consider myself very lucky to have no one near me who doubts the vaccine!
to catch**
ostia, i had this discussion there with my brother. cursed pig's head.
for people from here the reverse could also do:
pheobe: we deconfine because the vaccine works!
joey: we do not deconfine even if the vaccine works!
it's not bad the same with some individuals on reddit also who pick up scientific information that suits their narrative.
my girlfriend's family are all anti-vax and it's just me to vaccinate it's still very sad to hear them say that the vaccine is just an excuse for the government to experiment on us ..
alright where is my friend i need him to read for me
hey, do you have the same mother as me?
not completely wrong, even vaccinated, wear the mask, you can poke it, pass it on, if you are positive you still have to quarantine ... a restaurant has closed because of a covid case, vaccinated .. ..
nnn in a nutshell
same haha
its reminds me that we don't have a friends vfq (as far as i know).
it's sad for the family bickering ... my grandmother died in december and half of the family will not come to the funeral because wn bickering with the other half ... all for an opinion on the vaccine. .. what a shame
to catch
question for mods: doesn't it fall under the "conspi grannies"? i posted one on masks and the little prince and i got a ban (which has been reviewed on condition that i post more).
what's the difference between a granny who talks about the vaccine and another about wearing masks?
indeed it is difficult to argue against an anti-vaccine !!!!!
i drop it here: [ marge(
take away their at least reddit.
the vaccine was to stop the spread. it is now to protect you from more serious symptoms. tomorrow you will need a new vaccine.
i would get along well with your relatives!
are you tired of the world just talking about this here? the world are you going to stick it on it for another 1 year suddenly?
can someone explain to me the difference between quebec and the united states? other than letting people make their own choices? 1 week ago, there were 110,000 people at lollapalooza, we are 2000 at the festivoix and take a mask in a cattle pen, if you are at risk of dying tabarnak stay with you it will be 2 years that we is limited in all, stune true joke this story there!
ok but why force me to vaccinate myself then? protect yourself and leave me alone
fuck the vaccine, but hey, not too much of a choice to take it
stop posting nonsense to justify the ineffectiveness of this so-called vaccine.
[removed]
it's fun to see so much approval for a trump achievement! long live trump's vaccine!
first time that a vaccine is released which does not give full immunity and which does not prevent transmission.
zero credibility when i read a spelling mistake. even in a meme. past participle: we do not say "caught" but rather "catch" the virus.
and 30% of accidents are caused by people who have been drinking so if we prohibited driving if you are not hot, that would make 70% fewer accidents!
only 1% of road accidents cause serious injuries. so why should i tie myself up?
/ s in case
the seat belt does not make my children autistic !!! / s
well said
your argument is far from comparable
unless you need a car seat belt to be able to enter restaurants, bars, restaurants and gyms?
the palm of the dubious analogy of the day
the vaccine actually lowered the viral load, so transmission also. the delta variant changes gives it a bit.
"the vaccine did not prevent contagion" false, anti-vax propaganda if you prefer
"the vaccine did not prevent any contagion" reality
you are absolutely right. there's no way to look at the thing with a cool head, it's all black or white. either you are a "sheeple", or a "covidot".
"only a sith deals in absolutes" -- obi-wan kenobi
it does not prevent all contagion but prevents a lot of it because the vaccine reduces the symptoms a lot and it is often these symptoms like cough that spreads the virus.
just saying "it does not prevent contagion" is as true as saying "car indicators do not prevent accidents"
link your comment?
usually when the world comes out with their comment "that was downvoted" it is often filled with mard and the downvote was valid.
in the last year and a half, if you ever said that the vaccine was not wonderful and 100% the way of reason, you had to kill yourself in the public square. now it's the other way around. if you say the vaccine works and should be trusted, you're a conspirator.
better to laugh about it, and clearly she has enough humor to laugh at herself. even if we disagree with his decisions, she remains a person with a certain humility and a joy of life when she is sex-prime.
it's just funny that she's repeating it another time because she can't believe she said that.
reminds me of when jt said the word moist last year
it's the seizure of federal and municipal [erections] ( after all
[deleted]
please tell me that infoman is coming back this week to cover this excerpt
it's passion for the what?
his passion for the penis.
hihi she said penis 😂
what fall it will be for infoman. i can not wait any longer. two electoral campaigns including one municipal. candy from miss candidates!
give this plant water, it is thirsty.
dick passion is contagious?   
fuck that i'm staying inside.
valérie eggplante
* a big foreskin, from mayor plante
it's * hard * to watch, but at least she * doesn't * swallow * her emotions. there are people who would have * wanked * in the handle a long time before talking about it. when she goes to * bat * like that, we can't call her a * cross-country *. take it from the * seed *.
she put her ~~ penis ~~ foot in mouth.
ayyoooooh.
it's things that happen, what do you want.
lmaoooo
little know fact: she won the penis game of the social club of ville montreal with this.
see you at the next episode of passion pénis
[i'm good from behind](
were you judging montreal's onlyfans accounts?
it would have been cool to keep the sequel, when she was laughing to death ...
it's friday.
she was already thinking about the weekend
naughty (͡ ° ͜ʖ ͡ °)
considering the title i knew it was coming the first time she said "tennis". i still did this face there 
* laugh at my uncle * hehehe penis. she has my vote.
phew, that was a big ~~ phallus ~~ slip that up!
we are all 10 years old after seeing this video lolll
that was really funny hahaha.
euhhhhh
it happens to everyone, i love it.
improvisation on the theme: coderre makes the same slip.
go!
the question that kills: do you have a passion for the penis?
lol!
mme plante has a certain sex appeal when she names the genital party ...! 😏
indeed it is very contagious the penis, a real pandemic
u / savevideo
reminds me of steven harper with the "federal erections".
we could say that she is crashing
good bye
i too have a passion for penises. i have one!
i would also have avoided the word contagious in the current context
is ugly
[deleted]
it is painful to listen to, really!
[removed]
nice one👌
fort
cha-po
got me in the first half, not gonna lie
best air quebec 2021 commentary 🗓❎
i second ... happy national day! i miss you, quebec! and man oh man, if the canadiens win the cup, to go celebrate, the river, i'll swim across it if i have to!
thank you very much, but don't forget that it is also the day of the celebration of franco-ontarians in your province too!
so it would be appropriate to wear green and white today too, if you wish!
happy st-jean de l'acadie too!
brands
i found your fleur-de-lis strange, the base of the flowers is not the same. it's nice but it catches the eye. where did you get your flag from?
the flag looks retro, really beautiful!
happy birthday quebec
thank you!
hi neighbors! thank you!
thank you ontario! ❤️
thank you, neighbor ontario! xox
come on ontarians, let's get in the "bandwagon" canadians
there's like a red spot below the flag, i put comet on my screen but it doesn't go away?
we must smash downtown montreal if the canadian wins it seems
in fact our house has it flown in september! (we are not true franco-ontarians, just anglo-franco / quebecophiles)
> so it would be appropriate to wear green and white today too, if you wish!
i've always been told that you have to wear red to celebrate st-jean!
chtarmarcie!
lol no, i can assure you that is the familiar flag - the flowers are fluttering in the wind.
> where did you get your flag from?
seems like a dubious ali express flag to me lol
downtown toronto would do the trick too ...
you are quebecois in your heart, it is the only place where it matters! happy st-jean to you too!
what do you need to be true franco-ontarians?
[winnie.jpg]
it looks like the old flags! like the ones we saw in the 1940s! personally i find it cool!
probably a command of the french language not broken at the end! but honestly i believe that the word "franco-ontarian," as a socio-cultural term, means two things at the same time (problematically): the people who live in ontario and speak the language of voltaire, worse the ontarians who received french as their mother tongue. i know the difference is not clear nor agreed upon. but i'm not an expert.
you do well in french anyway.
there is a cultural difference between the anglophone and francophone culture when it comes to belonging. anglophone culture places more emphasis on blood ties and francophone on cultural ties.
you can join the culture if you want to.
falardeau said a beautiful sentence which illustrates well the belonging to quebec culture: i don't want to know where you come from, i want to know where we are going!
and his belgian cousin darth maules and frites
take your upvote and give me your keys, you're too hot to operate a reddit.
darth raleur
join the dark side of the force, where "we do not do like that at home". we have chocolate breads.
put it back on r / rance, they'll love it.
it's over anakin! i have the bonjour-high ground!
every morning, he eats a yodaurt for breakfast ...
hello general "canot brie"
darth solidaire is certainly his master.
oh no, do not tell me that quebeckers are saying suddenly now. this scourge must remain in europe. i propose to put the tray in quarantine
*county
that said, excellent granny the same
still lucky that rey was not dooku's daughter.
i had a co-worker who said that all the time. suddenly and in a pinch. i liked him but i was a bit sick of hearing that. dude it's been 20 years you're here, relax the parisian one can.
good scuse, it had to come out.
potamogle
thanks to those who gave me a btw award!
kale the fork be with you
as a frenchman, the "suddenly" i force myself so much to try to say it more but impossible it comes out on its own. or i have to redo the whole sentence in my head or say something else. i don't know how you do it, this term is a way of life, even an institution. besides, i'm going to stop denying it and embrace it again as part of my life. i have even already infected a friend from quebec, she also told me recently "i have to go shopping but i'm getting drunk"! hihi.
eeeeeet vlaaaa un upvote !!
let me know where we still find such long stick sabers, they look like they are getting shorter ...
minus the beard.
saruman the white.
east of rue st denis, the border is mont royal in the south and ave van horne / rosemont in the north
less habs, more ol, om, psg 😅
this ad would of made more sense in 2002
boba fett what you want eh ...
^ onndourretède commenthe
hahaha ayoye it took me a little too long to understand it ... in my defense i'm not good on seafood
good game
oh a fried mussel on the side, i miss it
o-ok .... marci big jtaime * hic *
so we don't do it like that in montreal
it's really not like in france!
-heard in a home hardware in cote-des-neiges
refrained from yelling noooooonnn! ???? for real!? in his face.
i don't know this subreddit but tried it haha
wow i love it
unbelievable
* made from natural midi-chloriens
yum
look lord, it's a y!
-yogurt! yogurt! i hate yogurt! and even with raspberries!
it took an inexplicably long time to understand the joke.
sorry? ah. ah yes yes. yes yes yes. you mean a ya-our-t-eeeennn.
*breakfast
hého there!
tsé "suddenly", basically, it's just a kind of fashion.
[deleted]
the tray should be in quarantine permanently. so we avoid meeting these damn french!
in fact it's because he is counting with his left hand, that's why ... he has reached 5
/ s other fault, thank you! i'll do my memes with more sleep in my body next time haha
thank you! i didn't understand all.
raie ducul
do you want to keep talking about it?
in a pinch, suddenly kidding me, but there's no way that would get me drunk. because usually, i like things that get drunk. i refuse to accept this expression!
choubakka pable to continue ...
10,000 point combo
gluten free!
use the hint
"maurice, stop with your camera and help me batinse!"
meow?
cigarette tops are a bonus
back in the days that paper grocery bags wouldn't tear!
cigarette cinders on the top of my wand forever bother me 😂
i just wanna know what's the slogan on the van behind
he just wants to be rid of his pain
the good handcrafted spray!
look at me the beautiful black sloshe
the more it changes, the more it is the same
it reminds me of the milk delivery man in the 2000s.
cloppe flavored bread.
it still exists. the bread box has a similar truck and goes around the restaurants on rue st-jean (among others).
the delivery man has it cleaner, on the other hand!
i have an uncle who was a bread deliverer (for gailuron) at home around chicoutimi several years ago. i find so much the same person vibe in this photo!
yeah, the blue pant pi sloche mix is as bad now as before
good smoked baguettes à la garette
it could have been taken last week as long as i was. it hasn't changed much apart from the clothes and the old tanks
did anyone know that milk delivery still exists here? i just found that out and want to try it. any do it? [here](
used to do the same thing. delivered baguettes to shops and restaurants in the old city. the tourist lost their shit when they saw me doing my run. had pics taken pretty much every single day
is that an alberta license plate or did québec have red plates back then?
ah, the 70s. the cigarette, the v8s with carburettors, the beginning of the disco and the good pure powder ... the good times what.
the guy who delivers the bread to my job looks a lot like that
the comments on r / oldschoolcool are funny.
[
seriously, the guy looks super nice. this is the good guy greg from quebec.
will we go to tavarane after lshift ??
son cousin
"it's méo ..... * cough cough * méo the cough!"
lolololol
it's the little homemade taste.
it's empty flour sacks
the paper in these bread bags was thicker and lined.
it's like coming out of a traditional oven.
that's just flavour! mmmmm 😋
you could ask them, [they still exist!] (
pain gerbe d'or. you eat, your health, you win. (?)
knowing that the word "gerbe" is used in france for "vomit", not sure that the quality of the products is there: d: d
yen were still in the 2000s?
in my area we had a truck that went around day camps and parks to give cardboard boxes of grape juice or orange juice. same deal as the ice cream truck but with juice. the highlight of my days at day camp
before 1979 each year had its color. this one is from 1976 (which i guess is normal if the picture was taken in early 77)
they were red back then.
[i don't think it's the same, but the expo plaques were orange-red reddit style] (
theo.
well before it tastes a little "something".
just like grandma in ~~ smoked ~~ did!
it is indeed paper bags. look at the border at the top. the triangular zigzag edge.
interesting! they are in montreal ... did the guy really come to deliver his baguettes to quebec?
the photo would not be taken in quebec? (it looks like rue st-jean in cursed that's for sure)
you sheaf *
it also means "stack", so often on the transport pallets it says "do not stack" which always makes me laugh.
it was the intention, dear friend;)
yum yum the good disgusting fresh baker.
pti there are still today, just find them. i have a milkman who delivers me to every tuesday for about 10 years. it also has bread, cheese, egg, juice etc.
with children it is worth it and it is equivalent or less expensive than the grocery store.
yes, my mother received it when she was pregnant. maybe it was a program only for pregnant women.
have you noticed that the bigger a city, the less it has a saint's name? this is because the french when they arrived did not give the names of saints to towns and villages. these are amerindian names like quebec, tadoussac, gaspé; names of people or related to royalty such as montreal or richelieu; names linked to toponymy, such as trois-rivières or sept-îles.
after the conquest, the french who had the means returned to france and the clergy took control of the company. from that moment, the new villages that were founded mostly took names of saints. there are of course a few exceptions, but this is a fairly well observed general rule.
the large cities being older, they do not have the names of saints.
saint-hubert bbq
without forgetting st-tits
ange-gardien is the best holy city in quebec.
in addition, quebec has three to watch over him!
there is a village called precious blood.
fucking * precious blood * sacrafose
the worst part is that often it is not really the name of a saint, as the rue saint-denis was on the grounds of a denis so they added saint in front of and they gave his name to the street.
edit: replace saint-denis with sain-urbain, see below for the true origin of the name of the rue sain-denis.
without counting the countless duplicates: sainte-anne- (des-monts) (de-beaupré) (de-la-pérade) (de-bellevue) ... the saint-jean ...
ok but there are some that i think they just made up. like, who is “saint-zenon”?
do you have a holy-suffering-of-the-last-days? looks like we should have a last-day-stes-suffering
there are many "notre-dame-de ..."
for the curious, a [ha ha is a type of ditch that serves to block the passage without blocking the view] ( in the case of [st-louis du ha! ha!] ( it would be a reference to the 80 km portage between lake témiscouata and the st-laurent. according to the guinness book of records, it is also the only municipality name with two exclamation marks in its name.
the name i prefer is by far the trou-à-pépette. hard to beat as a village name.
/ s the catholic religion is not integrated into our everyday life!
do not forget the best, saint-michel-des-saints!
after the unbolting of the statues, will the wokes attack the names of towns and villages?
if you want to fool around, my father has a good one:
"we have to go find a trip to the garden in st-jean-marc-des-cochons-qui-toussent
saint-paul-d'abbotsford, saint-pancôme, ** sainte-foy **
“in my country of a thousand spiers”
saint-augustin-de-desmaures, saint-basile, saint-basile-le-grand la vallée-du-richelieu, saint-bruno-de-montarville, saint-césaire, saint-charles-borromée, saint-colomban, saint- constant, sainte-adèle, sainte-agathe-des-monts, sainte-anne-de-beaupré, sainte-anne-de-bellevue, sainte-anne-des-monts, sainte-anne-des-plaines, sainte-brigitte- de-laval, sainte-catherine, sainte-catherine-de-la-jacques-cartier, sainte-julie, sainte-marguerite-du-lac, sainte-marie la nouvelle-beauce, sainte-marthe-sur-le-lac, sainte-thérèse, saint-eustache, saint-félicien, saint-gabriel, saint-georges, saint-honoré, saint-hyacinthe, saint-jean-sur-richelieu, saint-jérôm see, saint-joseph-de-beauce, saint -joseph-de-sorel, saint-lambert, saint-lazare, saint-lin, saint-marc-des-carrières, saint-ours pierre-de saurel, saint-pamphile, saint-pascal, saint-philipe, saint-pie , saint-raymond, saint-rémi, saint-sauveur, saint-tite
sainte-thérèse, saint-hyacinthe, saint-anne-des-plaines, saint-sauveur, ... then you can go around the street names that start with saint lol
saint-louis-du-haha? ..
pov: you do a meme on quebec but you write it in english
st-laurent, côte st-luc
saint-clin-clin-des-meuh-meuh
oppalai.
st-adele, st-jerome, st-agathe, st-sauveur, st-lambert, st-jean-sur-richelieu, st anne-des-monts, sainte-therese, saint-marthe-sur-lac ... even holy-bear. who is saint-ours ?? that's not even a real saint
saint-quentin-la-motte-croix-au-bailly
we also liked to call them cities with dangerous stuff in english. asbestos for example.
do not forget,
saint georges
sainte-brigitte-de-laval
saint augustin
saint-jean-sur-richelieux
saint-jean-port-joli
sainte-catherine-de-la-jacques-cartier
sainte marie
hagia sophia
saint nicolas
saint-colomban
st. saviour
saint-hippolyte
holy spirit
saint-etienne-des-grès
saint-stanislas
saint-tite
...
the entire beauce has names of saint
[st-néant] (
saint-félicien
the municipality of notre-dame-des-sept-douleurs! (green island)
rather than towns / villages with names of saints is due to the act of municipalities and roads in lower canada of 1855. which provided that all parishes should be incorporated into municipalities. concretely, the parish becomes common if it is on a territory of more than 300 inhabitants in the predominantly catholic regions. in predominantly protestant regions, the cantons are set up as municipalities
it is really a good observation!
but i'm curious to know (and just cowardly to write the commentary before doing any research) why this seems a little less the case in saguenay-lac-st-jean.
dolbeau, mistassini, jonquière, alma, chicoutimi, roberval, métabetchouan, normandin, etc ...
there are several that have native american names, of course, but there seems to me to be less "saint" at first glance.
wasn't montreal called ville-marie before?
it's interesting! thank you for the little history lesson! i did not know.
and the more hyphens ... the smaller the population ... for example: notre-dame-de-pontmain ~ 750 inhabitants. saint-andré-du-lac-st-jean ~ 450 inhab.
it's so interesting, thanks for sharing!
this village has been relocated to ontario, unfortunately.
this is exactly what frodo and sam eat in the meme.
the most important place
famous village where the false nipples come from
i like our local precious-blood aka très-précieux-sang-de-notre-seigneur, the mosquito population justifying the choice of this name.
> ange-gardien is ** the ** best holy city in quebec.
worse [** l '** ange-gardien] (
i prefer the ascension-of-our-lord
precious blood aka très-précieux-sang-de-notre-seigneur, the mosquito or mosquitoes are masters and king
some will say that saint-denis comes from denis of paris, first bishop of paris. several places bear his name. but for the case of the street in montreal i'm not 100% sure
canonized automatically!
zeno the tribun, famous roman.
[
little known fact, founded by nostalgic for leytron in switzerland
usually i support the government but this one is difficult. i understand the reasoning but damn it! we are not here to pay the idiots who voluntarily put in the hole. and besides ... if you can afford to spend 2 weeks / 2 less in florida you must be able to spend 2 weeks in quarantine.
[deleted]
subsidize travel during covid mdr. the government's decision-making shocks me more and more.
my father has to work 16 hours a day pcq he struggles with his sme. not a lot of help for him, but hey he just has to travel more. artisan bakery btw bags of losses every day🤡
e: thanks for the support guys. it's sorrento bakery in rivière-des-prairies in mtl's asshole to the east. if you ever go send me a photo! :)
wait there ... i missed a piece of it. donate $ 1000 for the travelers' quarantine? where does it come from? i missed the memo.
edit: [
take. bar. nack.
no need to cross them, they cross on their own!
isn't that part of the benefits dating back to this summer that were used to help canadians returning home after being caught in other countries?
i mean, even if it does, we can complain about the use that some people are going to make of it, but it's not like they are just giving $ 1000 to people who have gone south, that is. it is the people who went to the south who benefit from a service that is supposed to help out!
will members of parliament who are traveling receive $ 1,000?
i love this page ahah. i always have to look up everything in my french translator because i’m crash course learning.
it's the federal government, let's say they did anything with the covid.
the biggest clowns are those who left for the south tbh
the trudeau government's border management has been a real masquerade from the start.
sacrament, montreal had to send the spvm to pet because the federal government was doing nothing in march, and infected travelers were returning home like water in the mill.
trudeau lives in ottawa and he was not even able to take the initiative to monitor the interprovincial borders and harmonize the rules in the region. it was the provincial governments and the mayors of gatineau and ottawa who had to work together and act while the bridges are under federal jurisdiction.
forbid the police to intervene at roxham road but ask them to intervene in private gatherings
it should be a contravention of $ 1000 band of mongolian chosen from chalice
if it continues as it is, it is clear that the country will go bankrupt in two years
papa trudeau gives cash as if there was no tomorrow
during this time we are two parents waiting for our unemployment for 2 months here. i know a dude who is 3 months without income because of unemployment
from what i understand, the $ 1000 is to compensate for the 2 weeks of quarantine when returning from a trip.
could someone with bad intentions take a one-day trip to the cheapest us destination every other month, work remotely from home during that quarantine, and claim the $ 1000 26 times during the quarantine? year?
unless that is not possible, the problem seems much more serious to me.
when we know that cases caused by travelers represent about 1% of cases, forcing a hotel stay will lower the curve.
/s
> allow a highly contagious pathogen to spread for owner the authoritarians
they do anything.
[deleted]
[deleted]
the best thing for me is that i live in germany, but i am canadian. so i could outright be paid for a visit to my parents in quebec and my return ticket to germany if it wasn't that the german border is closed for the return trip.
the $ 1000 question: 
good reflection on the subject. in other words, it is partly the price we pay because ottawa did not have the courage to intervene more severely to mark out the entrances / exits of the country ...
from what i understand, it is a hole in the legislation that makes this possible. the purpose of this aid was to give people $ 1000 so as not to lose 2 weeks of unemployment due to quarantine. it's the way it's worded on paper that it gets out of hand, because you're in your forties coming back from your trip. hoping that the legislative team clears it up
i've always had a lot of respect for people in your field, but these days my respect for you is 10x greater than before. and what the covidiots do is nothing short of laughing your ass off.
where exactly is your father's bakery located? if it is in montreal, i can perhaps go and encourage his business!
i too will go and encourage him if it is not far from where i live!
sacrament...
i don't know in which region his bakery is located, but if it's in mauricie, i'm sure to stop by!
[deleted]
[deleted]
i thought it was satire when i first heard this ...
not bad sure that it is us who is made cross in there
it should have been added in the clauses that the quarantine should not be the direct result of a non-essential activity, just to be 100% certain that such situations are not covered. i highly doubt that people in the south will be able to have this benefit, the internet likes to ignite and be right before the presentation of the facts, but still that does not bode very well.
the program has its reason for being, i know essential workers who are having difficulty making ends meet and without it, their forced quarantine would have put them in dire straits. you have people who put themselves at risk every day and this is the world to which this program belongs.
but if you have to quarantine yourself because you voluntarily put yourself at risk by traveling in the midst of a pandemic and you ask for compensation ... fuck you! everything has been closed for 9 months because of moral drainers like you who don't listen to instructions, deal with your troubles. if you planned a pandemic trip, you should also have planned your quarantine because you knew very well that it would be an obligation afterwards.
thank you for bringing a little nuance.
we will see how many people will actually claim this benefit. there must not be a lot of people who knew they were going to forgo two weeks' pay when they came back from a trip.
it's also really very theoretical as an outrage at the moment. [the criteria for accessing the pcre] ( are nevertheless sufficiently strict to exclude a person on vacation in the south. i do not see many travelers qualifying for this service according to these criteria.
i was out of the country for 6 months when the pandemic started. i lost almost all of my savings and never saw a single dollar of government aid. and if there was really a service in place, well i never heard of it and yet i was in contact with the embassy daily and i was on the govt site all the time. this news really disappoints me
no, because they will continue to receive their mp salary during their quarantine, so they are ineligible for the $ 1,000.
don't give up my dude !
good for you. learning a second, third, fourth etc. language is never a bad thing! good luck =)
i, who have continued to work tirelessly since the pandemic, received no government benefits and continued to pay my taxes by staying wisely at home listening to the government. i'm starting to find that i'm the cellar when everyone can go party in the south without consequences ...
i think he could have sent the rcmp. if i am not mistaken, it is the rcmp which has jurisdiction in international airports in canada, even if these airports are located in a city being served by municipal or provincial police.
fire
for roxham road, the problem is not trudeau, but the geneva convention which was signed long before the * birth * of justin trudeau, and even before pet became prime minister of canada. asking the police to intervene there would be a violation of this agreement signed by several countries (including canada) in 1951.
not that i fully agree with the convention, but it's not something trudeau can really do anything about, * especially * since he's now a minority. and i'm sure that even in his first term, where he was in the majority, he could not have done much ... if not for harper in his 9 in power, of which what ... 6 (at least) majority (?) would have did something long before.
the border with the states is still closed if i am not mistaken, except for business or necessary travel. it would be quite dificult according to less to convince a customs officer that an afternoon trip is `` necessary ''
and before you tell me something like '' go get / wear something '' bah, ups, fedex, etc, that's their job.
it was not a decision from the provincial gouvernement it was from the federal so it's the liberals fault.
i dont think its the caq, its federal. correct me if i am wrong.
bruh it’s federal lol
the elections are coming, you will be able to make use of your right to vote.
ps me too j't'en tabarnak.
note that this is not a new policy to assist travelers. it's an old policy to help people who can't work because of quarantine or illness, and a journalist just realized that doesn't exclude travelers.
the stroke of "you will still be caught with me" is the quote of the same year
this granny jig is going to always make me laugh, lol.
what, lionel perez lost his job ?!
* / u / pedz watch the news ... *
> yesterday evening, shortly after 10 p.m., mr. perez, from ensemble montreal, was announced as the winner, while the count was not over. but now the count ended gives the rookie of projet montreal winner of this hot fight. she has 83 votes ahead of mr. perez.
ah bin! jolie surprise!
so who is going to be leader in place of the leader of the opposition and hold the fort until coderre's next return?
there's a side of me that wants to see a * hitler's downfall * version of coderre's defeat!
rip, this guy made the whole world laugh. probably the most dubbed video in history.
no worse for all that he takes his belly at the same time as "honest and transparent".
i'm in the office and i'm so cramped.
kekw
that sums it up well: 
rip giggles
i have a feeling we'll be seeing him again in the qlp elections soon!
u / savevideo
* be! *
bravo!
wow, well done, it's so perfect !!!
beautiful dub!
rip giggles
this is the first time i hear the full audio of this clip and i had never understood the man telling a beach story, i'm dying of laughter and for the subtitles and for the story as that such
😆😆😆
lol!!!!
u / savevideo
kekw indeed 🤣
him, he must be at home saying to himself "caline that i should have just presented myself to the leadership of the provincial liberals!"
so see *** ^ (s) ***!
do not hide the face either. the early turnout in this election was ridiculous.
if the cover of the journal de montreal isn't "we're not hanging out with him yet", there's a guy who's not doing his job properly.
i can't wait for infoman
did he really say that? i haven't seen it in the news, but it doesn't surprise me
that's when we knew he was screwed. like in a movie when you say you're invincible.
it was a choice of words .. worthy of his campaign.
winner or loser, not a strong idea, let's say!
did he really say that silliness there? do you have an article, a video that sees him say it. fuck this guy is a legend. hahaha
/r/agedlikemilk
the actor is called risitas, he is an español who laughs like that.
is he accompanied by his cousin / friend? who laughs asser cave too.
> and hold the fort until coderre's next return?
if coderre comes back, it's more than a bottle of fort that is needed.
> until coderre's next return?
*do not*
with a face-swap!
what role would you give lionel perez?
osti yes !!!!
the original version is also funny, but downfall has probably been dubbed quite a bit more.
###[view link](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=  |  
 [^(reddit video downloader)](
###[view link](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=  |  
 [^(reddit video downloader)](
perhaps the election was too early.
> the *** early *** participation in this election was ridiculous.
vote early, vote often.
this is the jdm. the only person who does his job properly there is the one who sells the advertisement.
no instead they wrote * valérie plants coderre *
i chuckle a bit.
the link was shared earlier but i'll give it back to you
may he rest in peace
feu giggles
i must have listened to the original video about ten times, i laugh to tears each time.
this dear risitas ❤
i'm sure coderre is more indestructible than jason. he has already planned 5 suites.
in 4 years, denis 3.0 with cybernetic implants.
[deleted]
c't you me or legault looks younger on the right?
legault seems to have rejuvenated, arruda has aged 15 years.
politics is really rough on women
i always knew that dubé was a woman
13 mars 2020 vs 6 avril 2021
i remember at the beginning when everyone made the same ones on arruda and its spanish tartlets we all thought it would be a quick downside.
portuguese tarts are far away.
i didn't vote for him, but i wouldn't want his job.
mccann >>>>>>>>>> dubé
etk arruda has more time to dye his hair!
so much so that you lose your hair and you change your sex!
is good hahaha 🤣
yeah, i said yesterday that i thought he had whitewashed i see that i'm not the only one to find that
no mercy
c supposed shown what?
so like that aruda he likes the great reset? he seems to like the pins he wears on his jacket.
edit: lol the downvotes. read my review below if you're not happy. i just mentioned the gr which is a world economic forum event that really took place, whether you like it or not.
arruda looked stunned yesterday ...
not sure he didn't color his hair before
with or without dye.
even more for mccann!
as long as the just for men exists ...
yes. this is because he drinks the blood of the children and the demon together with bill gates to help the spread of 5g, it has the side effect of rejuvenating.
he saw a just for men ad in the jean-coutu flyer
as an expert on my ass, i think he redid his dye.
he has been living the dream of many politicians for a year, rarely has a quebec politician been so popular.
he stole his youth from dr. arruda, who got him the old age of françois legault
looks like it's partly due to the scout / image quality. it looks like on the right it is lit by a light with a warmer tone (yellow) and it gives it a less pale skin tone than the left, or it has a slightly gray complexion. we see the same phenomenon on arruda
legault absorbs arruda's soul
dubae
portuguese tarts ****
thanks.
> spanish tart
them's fightin 'words. it's like "ontario poutine".
natàsh. my man! bro. those things are the shit. if you buy them at dauphinais on ontario. shit is so dope.
the joke is that the minister of health went from a woman to a man, like what it is the same person, but the stress of the pandemic "changed" it
you get downvoted because you sound like a conspirator. in particular, there is a conspiracy part in your wikipedia link. so the un sustainable development goals have been around for a long time.
tell me no more
i believe that at first he thought that this crisis could be his springboard to become an important political figure.
but the more time goes by, the more legault walks on it a bit to get back up. i can not wait to see the post-covid, there will be a stir in the cabin.
if he dyed his hair before, he was doing a terrible job.
bob with hair
shit, where can i order children's blood? amazon do you have any?
i'm not a billionaire yet, but i have a 5g phone if that helps.
ffs. i snorted out my nose on that one. omg. m'a dead.
do you say that like a joke?
with touch of gray
exactly, while horacio has not refreshed his coloring in addition to choosing a frame that ages him ... jean airoldi should not go through there with his pad of tickets.
legault is a dementor ?!
it's going to take a patronus spell on arruda.
fucking christ. i can breathe gang after this one. paging u / awildsketchappears
might check it out! i live just beside ottawa ahaha.
right, that's why it's tagged humor. there was someone yesterday who wrote that arruda had laundered since the start of the pandemic. i went back to watch the video and indeed, he got a lot thinner and whiter. by the way, i made a little gag with mccan and dubé.
yes, the goals of sustainable development have been around for a long time but it's been as long as it has been criticized in a constructive way.
wikipedia tries to present all points of view. if you don't like the conspiratorial part, it's up to you to either avoid reading it or to convince yourself that what is being said is false.
jesus christ people who act like robots ... it is not because that "sounds" conspiratorial that you have to put yourself on automatic pilot. this is how we create echo chambers and people who do not think, but who are convinced that they are "on the safe side" without even knowing why. if you don't like what someone says it's your job to convince yourself why the person is wrong, it's not for others to say what to think.
i think i was wrong. its pins that's it: 
or this: 
in fact it represents the united nations agenda for 2030 (sustainable goals 20230). there are a few (not necessarily conspiratorial) reviews on it.
but i also put two links about the great reset:  and  basically it's very fishy because it's a plan that came out not long after the pandemic was declared and a lot of people saw it as capitalist opportunism.
this is because i remembered a post from last year on this (a lot of public figures wear this pin) but the person had also confused the two (or else they had made links that were a bit tight). too much by the hair). i made the same mistake.
harry potter and the deep fried chicken
on the contrary, it is not "thoughtful fried chicken". i prefer my ignorant chicken.
chicken fried in fat
yé ben kinky your colisse chicken.
mine is flat, still dripping the old rooster.
you see, it bothers me less. a small business started by probably immigrants who make an effort, it's not the same game as when it's a sobeys product ...
that must be the mystery of the abyss.
it reminds me of the famous "deep fried banana" from an all-you-can-eat sushi restaurant not too far from campus when i was at uni. the comments on the ordering ipad page were quite delicious to read.
deep fried chicken reminds me of this: [iconic (con) pop culture moment] (
chicken phtagn!
it is that of the pfk.
esti that i adore! is there a sub for these lame translations?
the chicken fought next to artorias in the abyss x)
will call my metal band like that
looks like an invocation to bring in an ancient chicken god. "ga dog gion cthulhu r'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn"!
deep-fried chicken, like a food you loot in an rpg while exploring dungeons or a dwarfs recipe haha.
on use + health points, + stamina, improved vision in low light? : d
chicken fhtagn.
oh my god!! where are you going to find all her things there ?! xd
'chicken fried in fat' almost lol
but for real 'deep fried chicken' even saying 'deep fried chicken' doesn't really work
'calicly fried chicken' maybe? or ben 'pfk'?
the oil is crispier at the bottom
the fried chicken in fat speaks to me in your!
[
h.p. lovecraft approves.
it is the birds of infinity, one faith all united you can alter the multiverse of cot cot
troll or olfq material? make a complaint. i want to watch the world burn lolll
my local chinese restaurant serves "peanut butter fish" and "mix vegetables fish"
haa !!! my god it's so funny 🤣🤣
## ph'nglui mglw'nafh chicken r'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn
post to r/canada. t'es pas game 😆😆😆
laugh at the little french blunders in a vietnamese restaurant when there has never been so much racism against asians in quebec. it is really tasteful! well done! don't let go of r / quebec! you really have a good sense of humor from my uncle.
c wrote dog at the top, i don't trust that lol
twenty thousand chickens under the sea
the art of chicken
it is true that if the chicken realizes that it is going to be twisted, it tenses up, and that makes the meat worse.
yes! yé in the fat!
can i have it fried in water instead?
[deleted]
disclaimer: photo taken in vietnam
whoever scrutinizes the fried chicken, the fried chicken scrutinizes him in turn
/r/trouduction/
hahaha it was not me turkey! it was u / tab_arnak
fyi: this photo was taken in vietnam. the goal is not to laugh at the bad french of the vietnamese, but rather at a really funny google translate error.
fuck i love this sub.
i have always preferred my * crispy * chicken personally.
i second. i am the proud owner of an old rooster.
he lifts more often than he did when he was young, but when he lifts, sacrament it's kinky!
so that there are people, they go to vietnam, they enter a restaurant where the menu is written in vietnamese, english and french, because restaurant owners de là bas have decided to be nice and without are there forced to translate their menu, and there people are like "lol there are mistakes in the french translation omg hahahahaha"?
i read that so much in charles patenaude's voice ...
ah lol! but the same you find business! it's too funny!
a bit in the same vein, it's a shame that the more the years go by, the less vietnamese remain in vietnam who speak french (brought up during the indochina colony). young people are turning to english. they have no reason to have a language policy on this, but it is further proof that without protection the language is gradually being abandoned, a bit like louisiana.
i call it the nautilus. now watch me take a whole chapter to explain that it runs on electricity.
frankly, lol.
i took the photo to laugh at the “deep fried chicken”, not the restaurant owners.
the planet may not be as hostile as you think.
i'm not old enough for a beer, i'm going to go grab some apple juice.
not only 0 deaths, a resurrection today!
4 bereavements in 3 weeks ... my condolences, it must have been hard.
go vaccin ♥ ️
thanks pfizer!
i was in contact with 3 people who had covid and i just passed a third negative test.
if it had happened in january, i would probably be in intensive care ...
the real test is at the end of summer.
but also the vaccination of the planet. we can at least rejoice that, if vaccination is going well in quebec, we can not worry too much between us because we are not going to die of it. just that is extraordinary.
yay!
glad not to be part of the problem anymore!
vaccination = be part of the solution!
i thank the vaccinees! let go of our pabs, assistant nurses, nurses and supers, and all the other specialties who have come to help, in addition to the volunteers. we see you and we love you :)
[deleted]
i don't like that ... by dint of taking down the dead, my serial murders that i did for a year will start to appear in the stats.
fuck yeah! roaring twenties 2.0 here i come !!!
the figures are encouraging, but the real stress test will be next fall. covid follows the flu cycle, so don't forget.
very sincere thank you to everyone! take advantage of it
i got vaccinated last week myself and the 3 other people who live with me. i'm going to get ahead of my second date as i have had virtually no side effects other than a sore arm for a day or two.
pleases.
it was really not that complicated.
my date is big friday, don't get angry :)
yeeee i had my first dose today at noon!
what joy! vaccinated first dose only but can't wait to have my second!
and a thank you to all those who are careful and who wear a mask 💕
i am not coming to do my anti vax or anti covid or what ever, i am fully vaccinated. but we had very, very similar figures exactly 1 year ago without a vaccine, so i don't think we can attribute this "victory" to the vaccine alone. in addition, the vaccines they give are not immune vaccines, you can still have covid.
we also have almost the same number of tests today as we did a year ago
barring an incredible breakthrough in the indian variant, i think we're safe enough to say we're okay for a couple of months.
two doses here! and everyone around me has already received at least one dose, what a beautiful feeling!
it was like that last summer.
the nb. of samples taken is still very low (in the 19k to 22k, compared with 40k in april), it messes a bit with the figures of the infection rate.
still broke, but yassss man! we're not giving up.
👍
yeah it's like the flu season is over
thank you to you for this message and all my condolences to you and all the others who have lost a loved one because of the covid.
i will get vaccinated on june 11.
on the way to the 2nd dose and better days
down the 200 on a sunday. wait for the statistics for the week before celebrating.
[deleted]
there are still people dying, by the way ... just not from the covid.
> no quebecer mourned the death of a loved one.
this is false, every day, nearly 200 quebecers leave their loved ones in mourning. alas, quebecers continue to lose their lives, * people are dying *, every day quebecers must mourn the death of loved ones they loved, hundreds of daily deaths * add to the toll * of the human condition . what an unbearable tragedy. may we someday make this never happen again.
first, vaccination is to protect yourself.
second, you are not the solution because you got vaccinated.
third, be patient with people who don't want experimental gene therapy! its remains a personal choice in relation to your health in general.
fourth, there are treatments that work very well for the symptoms of covid, but our super government has decided to ignore them and only offer supportive care rather than treating people with symptoms.
the government is responsible for the deaths of many people.
i wish you all good health and a return to normal life.
that covid?
hypocrites
i was just waiting to get vaccinated to read your condescending and stupid sentence. thank you
worse if you haven't vaccinated and you're reading this post? what are you waiting for?
seriously, i'm not against vaccination, but we have to stop pushing those who don't want to.
some cannot move, some have mental health problems that make them afraid of vaccinations, needles or leaving their homes. there are a lot of reasons that a lot of people would want to do this but therefore cannot at some point have to let go with this idea of pushing people.
the little juices are for snacks
juice gang!
> i'm not old enough for a beer,
are you stopping young people these days?
put some yeast in your apple juice and in a few days filter the result for the perfect crime.
you can taste the foam if you want
i pay one anyway if you want the young one
have a drink 0.5%
username checks out
- beethoven! but you weren't dead?
- yeah but that tempted me more.
we are dim so yes;)
a cousin who didn't believe covid was true visited his parents. it was contagious.
healthy uncle and aunt. vaccinate against the flu. golfers who had a bicycle shop and were active in their community.
aunt madade. a week later, dead. a week later, my uncle. dead.
two months later, a cousin on the other side of the family bursting with health. gym and walk every day! pogne covid. intensive care, dead.
a month later, my father's blonde. "we broke our family bubble. it's okay, we trust, no one who has it! no need for a mask when we go to celine! we are not staying long!"
the catch. dead.
zero funerals yet.
i have a friend who tested positive 16 days after his girlfriend (they had quarantined together). it was precisely his 3rd test. it's rare, but it happens. damn weird disease.
they weren't vaccinated btw, that was before the vaccines opened for their age.
in what context did you come into contact with these 3 people?
it seems reasonable to me so as not to overwhelm clicsanté. glad to have a clear timeline for everyone! the end is approaching, let's keep the gang hoping!
can i have an advent calendar, vaccine version? made of beers ...
[deleted]
can i get an amen 🙌🏻
[deleted]
phew it will roll !! there will be no free beaches it will fill up with the young population
1:14 p.m. it's not too early to open a beer! let's go!
is it normal to be emotional about a calendar?
please please pleeeeeeaaaaasssseeeeeee! get vaccinated.
i know a lot of disinformation is going around, and talks about how this and that. but for the love of anything human, get vaccinated!
i've lost 4 members of my family to covid. they'd still be alive today if it weren't for it.
we want a normal summer. i'm tired of washing my groceries. i haven't hugged my parents in a year and half.
i'm tired of working from home and seeing my favorite stores close down because they can't survive.
- please
- get
- vaccinated
great pessimist that i am, i had bet $ 50 with my husband that we would not be vaccinated by june 8th.
good. glad i was wrong. 😆
lapresse: “mr. dubé would like to put in place digital proof of vaccination instead of paper, like a qr code on phones. after the implementation of this digital proof, public health and the government will consider the need to go further. "
when arruda said yesterday that he did not believe in the vaccine passport! he renamed it to digital proof !! smart ;-)
it's all well and good to have dates, but do we have information on the specific time when the appointments will be open? i want to know when to spam f5 to grab the best seats.
shoot me up daddy dubé
i don't know if anyone has the answer, but if i'm 24 and i'm going to be 25 in the week of may 17, can i make an appointment on may 12? knowing that i would be 25 at the time of the vaccine.
\ * \ * \ * \ * \ * on the site of [ marge( opening of registrations 50-59 years old \ * \ * \ * \ * \ *
it's done ... my appointment is made !!!
and here we go !!!
we will soon all have access to vaccination (for those who want it) !!!
fuck.
i am 17 years old
what about those who are 17? i made my appointment on may 22 because i have asthma (i took it ~ a week ago). i will you make me refuse returned there? it is less than 1 month of my 18 years.
the day i go to the nunavik tabarnak ...
entk, as a healthcare worker i will probably get priority access
i like the government's new policy of deploying high-speed internet free of charge to everyone
well done the gang, i'm glad to see all the hype in the comments! go get vaccinated !!!
tell me that i will be able to go for a walk downtown and drink a maskless beer on a terrace this summer, please ...
i'm leaving gatineau on may 26 for quebec and i'm 21 so i can start making an appointment on the 14th, but i imagine that since i'm leaving on the 26th it would be a little tight, especially with the pace in the outaouais. so, should i indicate my quebec address according to you? i have a hôtel-dieu de lévis card if they ever need it.
people aged 50 and over could already be vaccinated dafuq, it could have opened earlier for others ...
will 12-17 year olds get vaccinated?
we can now go as soon as we have a bmi above 35 due to chronic disease! i received mine yesterday!
when everyone is going to be vaccinated are you going to have peace?
it's open for 50+ at mtl, i just booked my appointment online for the pfeizer. go 50+ go!
i had the right to a 4-month gap between my two doses
[deleted]
hey i'm more fucking capable !!!! i am followed externally for an immune disorder, it's been over a year since i exist. when i talk to my doctor, y tells me that the hospital is going to call me for an appointment (i cannot receive az and i need a close follow-up before and after the vaccine) and everyone is fine. get vaccinated while i will continue to be told to wait !!! how we decided to treat the sick disgusts me!
my god..i will maybe finally be less stressful..my teenager is unfortunately "covidotte", refuses to follow the rules of distancing and has twice the covid ... i have a degenerative kidney condition, i have 50% kidney function and am at high risk, but not on dialysis yet so i have to wait until my age group for the vaccine ... i'm in a bad situation and can't wait to be better protected .
[deleted]
question same is what we will see in advance which vaccine we are going to have? i spoke to a certain colleague about it and they refuse to be vaccinated if it is astra zeneca
[deleted]
i had predicted the 15th for the start of the vaccination for 18-44 (no appointments), and a little earlier for montreal, it sticks pretty well.
thanks for sharing!
from what time does each new age group open?
worse the under 18s?
the street vendors of "refresh" buttons will make fortunes on these milestones.
100,000 doses per day
nice
at last!
is it midnight or like 8am?
connecto-for ?
omg finally !!
moderna or pfizer, i'm big in tech
how does it work for the 2nd doses by the way? they give you a date from which to resume an appointment?
at last! i look forward.
okay, now, how do we make an appointment?
chad blanchet vs virgin paul
my god it would have been so excellent xd
damn!
always ** joking ** when the english think they have to teach us to be civilized.
j'ai ri, gg.
i feel like blanchet could get his points across better during the english debate if he replaced the word “québec” with “the provinces”. 
a lot of people(especially in western canada) would actually agree with giving more autonomy to the provinces and at the local level with less interference/influence from the federal government. 
unfortunately, they don’t even know what the bloc stands for and assume it’s just a separatist party that wants to destroy the country. 
the irony is that blanchet, the leader who wants less involvement from the federal government, would himself probably make the best federal leader.
she was truly a woke caricature with her land unceded at the start of the debate.
criss that i laughed! thank you!
why the green party is there. ridiculous.
it seemed condescending the first time she used that invitation case. and that hasn't changed. he handled it well.
lol!!
nice
blanchet should have answered: if systemic racism really exists, how do you explain that they, people from an ethnic minority, are at the head of federal parties?
ps: racism is real and it is everywhere in the world.
[deleted]
it must be said that * educate * and * educate * do not have the same meaning. * educate * is closer to "sensitize / inform", and "educate" denotes good manners, manners.
so she did not say that she wanted to * educate * him, but that she wanted to * sensitize * him, so even if other of his words were inappropriate, it is less worse than one might think.
found the maduch
u / profanitycounter
really sad to see that there is still this kind of colonialist contempt in 2021.
nice that you find it necessary to make it something english vs french. so much compared, my big one.
why would he do that? the bloc only has ridings in québec, the party is "le bloc québécois" and his base is (mostly) french-speaking québécois people. he doesn't care what people in western canada think.
i agree with that. i was listening to the debate in english and it is also something that i noted and that i would do differently if i was in his shoes. probably blanchet does not like including quebec among the canadian provinces and wants to insist on the distinction between quebec and canada as two nations, but it would work better if his argument in the english debate was that the provinces are the most able to serve canadians. (and i would also like to see one or more parties appear in canada which, without being pro-independence, are in favor of a redefinition of canada on the basis that sovereignty resides in the provinces.)
in english canada, it's super common to do that, it's just that in quebec we're not used to it.
afterwards, we can criticize that (it's often more virtue signaling than anything else), but to say that it's a woke caricature is not so accurate.
to flex on bernier.
i went to the advance vote yesterday and for the first time in 4 or 5 elections, there was no green candidate in my riding. there was the free party and the canadian independent party, on the other hand.
it must be really bad for the green party. i have the impression that it is being put to the debate to portray a negative image of what an environmentalist is so that people don't like them and think that otoole has a suitable plan for the environment.
can you explain
i disagree. in the context of the debate, she really said it in the sense of “learning” and not awareness. roughly speaking “you are uneducated, i will explain to you how it works”
heck no, you will never use the word “educate” for public communication as a substitute for 'educate / inform'. if you tell someone “educate yourself”, you don't kindly tell them to inquire… you convey the message with a clear tone: “you uneducated piece of shit bogan - open a book”.
otherwise, she would have said “teach him / inform him”.
are they not showing them how to choose good terms in politics?
👁👄👁
retard alert
it's not me who makes it like that, it's like that. what, do you think it's the martians? the spaniards? the roc is the english, and it is they who think of teaching us a lesson.
because during the federal debates his arguments fall on deaf ears, despite being ideas and policies that they would otherwise agree with. 
at that point, why bother with the english debate at all? he already had great success during the french debate.
because if conservatives in western riding want more provincial autonomy, then they'll submit a motion/bill/whatever and the bloc will back them on it because more provincial autonomy is good for quebec too, indirectly. if liberals keep having a minority government then they can't block cpc+bq on that specific thing if they're outnumbered. then on more common sense stuff the bloc can back the liberals, no need to back a specific party on 100% of their platform if you want a specific element of it.
that's what the balance of power is all about and why first past the post fucking sucks.
so what good is it to be a federal political party?
>his base is (mostly) french-speaking québécois
from my own experience at least, a lot more anglos have been voting bloc because the liberals are thieves and the ndp has fully embraced identity politics instead of being pro-labour democratic socialists like they're supposed to be. it is less that they support the bloc entirely, and more "the rest of canada is on its own".
he often says "the provinces and quebec". i like the formula because it implies that quebec is not just one province among others and it allows anglos to navigate it regardless of their province.
bloc alberta, aweille therefore.
o'toole told him he had a plan. weren't you listening? i don't know what more you want as proof of his sincerity.
[deleted]
this is so much sjws lingo, throwing "go educate yourself" at full blast to end a discussion / debate. it's childish, because deep down it just means "i think i have the truth on * x * subject, i don't want to discuss it. you agree with me or you shut up". anything.
you twisted both, she meant to re-educate in the ideological sense of the thing.
hmmm if she is english speaking, it is much more likely that she said * educate * in the english sense than in the french sense. ;) but do we ever know, maybe this word in particular, she says it in another sense than in her language!
yeah, if she wanted to be polite she would have said "raise awareness about ...". "educate" is just patronizing and pretentious.
no, u
tabarnac you're a racist man. i could have said the same thing to this guy and you would say the same thing? so are you going to say that all spanish speakers are also lecturing? you make it something english vs french because it sounds good to you, but in real life you are just hearing what you want and not what was said.
so that he can get quebec-bashed in the english debate by the moderator and expose the contempt against us in the roc.
his support rose by about 10% in québec because of the english debate, it was completely worth it and as someone who's for independence i couldn't be more glad.
no they don't. most of his base is french-speaking, but that doesn't mean there aren't english speakers in quebec he wants to reach out to. as a francophone québécois, i'm his base, but i'm also bilingual.
the bloc québécois is a québec for québécois people (and please don't misconstrue that as "white french québécois." i mean all québécois folks). he's one of the few leaders who doesn't have to pander to provinces he's never visited.
that's a really niche, longshot bet compared to talking exclusively about québec's rights. 
i'm a bloc québécois voter. i vote for them because if i'm going to get fucked i'm going to choose the guy who has my province's interests in mind while he does it.
to represent the interests of quebecers at the federal level?
no, but what a bogus question.
that's fascinating. i'm from a riding with many anglo quebecers, and they will vote liberal come hell or high water. the liberal mp here has gone from a 98% approval rating to *95%**,* even with everything that's happened.
laval is way too big
the st. lawrence river grew during the pandemic, like me unfortunately.
tremblant is just missing a little bit, and you hit the nail on the head
no, that's more how tourists see quebec.
it spends 5 days in montreal and it thinks to have seen quebec.
it must have been a long day at work because i'm from newfoundland and live in montreal but for a good 12 seconds i was like "hmm, yes makes sense..."
inb4 a triggered guy who will ask for a new sub rule for meta grannies.
excellent granny btw.
oh yes, and our famous weekends in the townships of greenland. everlasting memories in the orchards of frelighittoqqortoormiit.
that explains the whale of the old port
"oh, i live in lachine."
montrealers: * huh? or is that, lachine? *
it's meta. i like this!
you also need to rotate the island 60 ° to the right
there is an extra piece of land in the northwest of your quebec map.
i live in quebec and last week i have a montreal friend who was surprised that i can be vaccinated in quebec. he thought i should move to montreal
as a montrealer, i find this is to be inaccurate. the laurentians and eastern townships also exist but only on weekends and holidays. we have cottages you know!
ps... for next time, if can you post your meme in english as well so that i don't have to use google translate it would be greatly appreciated!
montreal> the rest of the world
you speak!
[
fixed: why half of the population of quebec see montreal like this.
so if i understood correctly, when you embark at berri-uqam on the yellow line, the line goes to newfoundland.
[i made a small correction to the map] (
like what? i do not see the problem.
take this posivote of a montrealer!
no hard feelings, but i made a version 3 with the fixes inspired by your comments
made a version with the tray.
in fact, the plan nord project in charest was just there to extend the montreal metro
it's the tundra in montreal nord! i always knew it!
i can see my street from space!
canada is made up of montreal, toronto, and vancouver. nothing else.
i'm surprised you included pointe-aux-trembles. usually, i have the impression that no one in montreal knows that we exist.
dixit a guy from quebec (probably)
it's simple. the denser an area, the larger it appears to its inhabitants.
don't forget to include the gaspesie "quequ goes far in the east"
r/mapporncirclejerk
hahahaha
truly,
another supporter of the 3rd link
i have heard of candiac, and also of quebec city, but not sure.
this is how the ministry of revenue sees montreal
because half of us don't have a tank
you forgot to put st-lambert above everyone else.
you see, no need for a third link 🤷‍♂️
i don't see the problem with this card
chu born in mourial.
i grew up in mourial.
spent 30 of my 36 years in mourial.
took 25 of those 30 years to explain to the world that yes:
1-we were leaving our house.
2-we are aware that the rest of quebec exists.
3-your region is beautiful and deserves the best in the world
asti it's been a long time. when i live in the region, remind me that i am in montreal just once a week. little victories that say there.
disconnect your yellow line at the height of the island of perrot, then go to business
yeah it's really funny talking about montreal north to a stranger and seeing the confusion in their face lolll or south "west" or just "east of montreal" 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
what is missing?
lol
you have us to thank
my street is big
it is less and less true
not that we don't have a tank
leave our labrador out of your troubles
because if it weren't for us, the rest of quebec would have starved to death!
this is fucking insane! ca pas d'allure.
curious to know to what extent this phenomenon will persist once the shortages have been resolved.
the tofu is safe! ^^ for ^^ now
guess it's time to eat more legumes!
government: the minimum wage must not go up. it will be of no use. anyway $ 50 is enough for groceries.
at that price, i got my hunting license to go and gun myself a big 4 paws.
we can play '' spot the vegan '' on this discussion thread.
there are a couple of things to do.
this is where i am grateful to go get my protein sources mainly in legumes. i finally love my little cane of beans at a dime.
#cavasbienaller🌈😂
being vegan i didn't even notice
honestly, i don't understand. i have the impression that these figures are also disconnected. in my corner, we are not talking about a 20% increase in bacon, but indeed 50% in the last year-ish (eg since covid).
we will not talk about beef either ... same thing or almost.
stonks
caline eh ?! we are far from 4.4% say ... it should always put inflation according to sectors (housing, groceries, materials, ect). it's really * misleading * to take all the products and services to make an amalgamation to establish the rate of inflation when for 90% of people, it is housing and groceries the majority of the expenses ....
if everything increases but wages also increase, we keep the same purchasing power, that's no worse. but i don't know about you, but my salary hasn't taken a 20% increase this year ... :(
i can't wait for my 2% annual salary increase ...
but it is really the increase in the minimum wage that is the problem.
/s
they forgot the pasta .... damn it's expensive now 😵
guerilla tabarnak
the image comes from what media?
it's a bit dishonest not to mention that the data is annualized (i.e. extrapolated over 12 months).
me who thought that i eat too much and i have my budget ......... the food is just more expensive lol
nobody talks about cucumbers at 3.50 $ each
***laughs in vegan***
well, we printed a ton of money and gave it to people like nothing was wrong. then we had the audacity to vote the same assholes again ... bravo!
this is what happens when you vote against an incompetent jerk who can't handle things properly.
[deleted]
goodbye bacon .....
tabarnak, for once i had an increase ... and it is less than these increase ... ciborium
not the bacon calisse!
they can turn up the gas anyway, i don't have a tank and it's good for the planet.
well that's what it gives, champion.
worse, i get told "seems to me that it costs more to be veggie, doesn't it?" lol ...
does this represent the increase from august 2021 or september 2020?
take advantage of it to start eating well! eating less meat will give you so much more energy.
oof
luckily i don't eat bacon ... btw it looks like we can make "bacon" with rice paper. i haven't tried it but it still looks no worse! you will check it on the internet it's a lot more economical than the real thing.
how much of that is really inflation and not due to an unfortunate confluence of temporary factors?
there was a drought last summer, and china had to cull millions of pigs due to disease which probably explains the outrageous bacon prices.
and the uk is culling pigs too, because of their trucker shortage, which might have global effects as well.
is that an increase from when to when?
criss not the shrimp
tabarnak
it's just the continuity of saving lives. we saved lives by staying home giving each other checks and now we are saving lives by preventing heart problems.
win-win!
no increase in btw dairy products
can we expect the income tax bracket adjustment? does anyone have any news or info
thank you
so much the better, meat is not expensive enough
t'sé, if ever you were looking for a reason to stop eating it there
meanwhile, large chains are recommending increases of max 2.5% on an annual basis ...
edit: word choice
wow. it changes absolutely nothing in my life. is it good to be vegan.
time to live in the country and become a farmer
[
salary: *** are you fooling? ***%
i think it starts with the price of gasoline. they ons cut the production of barrels during the pendemie. to increase the price. everything is very expensive to transport, but it's a sticky wheel, no one work, no one to buy. now with the vaccine we start to have light, but the price of the barrel does not drop, the gas is returned to 1.55 per liter. there are countries which are not able to pay this price to have electricity. it is quite ridiculous that supply and demand is no longer the norm in businesses. reopen the freakin taps, let the supply and demand determine the price, so the many can reap the benefit, instead of the few at the top. isn't price fixing supposed to be illegal. yes, i like to over simplify. everything goes up and nothing drops. it's more worrying than funny. i don't take much of my car, because it shocks me, it's no longer profitable to take the car. ford invents the auto for the people so that they can move around. gas is very expensive and still only the rich can take advantage of it. yeah, let me ride my bike to hell. soon, i'm gonna stop eating, ha.
esti the rents ... that makes no sense !!
rise our asteur salary tabarnak
this is what happens when the government says the budget will balance its self.
it gives me the feeling of the duplessis highway at the end of the rue de norway or bourgogne that!
the exit may be at 25 km / h, have you seen the distance between the lane of the highway and the curve? you have to squeal the brakes on the highway to be sure not to arrive too quickly, it is almost without purpose. an exit ramp should always provide the ability to decelerate.
you should send this to the mtq
you see that most people brake but too late then the wheels lock up and cannot turn any more, in winter it is important to let go of the accelerator earlier and brake more lightly to maintain better traction. on the other hand i agree that the output is still * tricky * in itself.
people go faster on the highway since it is better cleared of snow, but when they arrive on the exit ramp they take a 2 minutes when the grip is 10 times less.
[deleted]
if you are curious, there is even one who stayed 30 minutes, they were all with their feet to clear the tank.
the exit in front of my house is at 25km / h. several cars over the years have been found on the median opposite. the photos were before i installed a camera.
the last black car is lucky, it just drives over the snowbank!
it looks pretty rough as an exit yeah ... i wonder if having a slightly raised turn with a small angle towards the crossroads would not help the few cars which arrive almost in the snowbank to avoid it completely with greater ease ...
you should buy 1/10, 4/10, etc signs that flash
people rediscover winter driving every winter .....
as if it was the first time they took this curve ....
oh shit you drift
it is a problem of the angle of the road in the turns across quebec as a whole. i never understood why the limits are like this and even less why they never changed. especially since even ontario, which has similar conditions over a large part of their network, have more pronounced angles in the curves than in quebec.
instead we force everyone to have winter tires, not that it's a bad idea, but it shifts the blame on the citizens instead of assessing whether a general problem exists.
it's the world the problem, but in quebec we love to take responsibility away from ourselves so everyone will blame the exit.
you seem to be able to see it from a distance that it turns quite quickly, so it is possible to anticipate the required braking.
osti that it must be noisy in your house, man.
eh boboyyy
i quite agree with those who say that the exit is not super safe. do 100-> 25 * on * a highway, it goes unnatural, and personally do it in a straight line, especially in winter, i would be afraid of getting hit.
i mean, it's definitely the wrong decision to go too fast for fear of getting you into it, but i understand it. also, 25km / h is absurd as an exit speed. if you're distracted and misreading the sign, you're in shit.
when winter comes, people continue to ride like summer (and others do that all winter), take to the field and say it's the ice (or the mtq's) fault.
as my teacher said:
> it's not the ice that drives, it's you!
there i want to see if i can drift it completely without picking up the field
the one @ 1: 00+ lol
4 bourgeois or ste foy? xd
r/idiotsincars
i want to live there and give a grade out of 10 when leaving the road with a big whiteboard
with a coffee or beer
crisssty that i would love to be where you stay in winter. hours of fun guaranteed
i laughed
your camera paid for itself!
it is so beautiful.
thanks for sharing
i would say it's a mix of the two 🤔 i mean the curve, my god
some guy created a youtube channel just for a low overpass where the trucks hang on. you might be amused to do the same.
[
the curve is poorly designed so it looks like the engineer who did that is a troll
that's wonderful
a bit of both.
not obvious design on the part of the mtq, but nice gang of tatas like that.
the configuration of the premises is also not optimal ....
the two! obviously they are going too fast, but the exit is much too sudden and the curve is really narrow.
we need tokyo drift lessons here
to come from quebec also we must admit that this exit can be vicious in calvert for someone who does not know the place
probably a mixture of the two
the dude with the black suv is on the check mark in tk.
at the same time i don't know where thabites but it looks like you are getting off the highway and barely 100m to brake before taking a not worse sharp turn.
add some snow and yeah, bye in the ditch.
dangerous output.
aye, amazing that the lamppost is still there ...
what did you use to record that. the image is still beautiful for a surveillance camera.
r/idiotsincars
it seems to run pretty dry thank you. if you're not from the area and you don't know that things turn out sharply when you get off the freeway, it's clear that you are accidentally drifting.
at 00:36 it looks like tokyo drift.
i don't know the place but how fast is the main road? in my opinion falling from 60-70km to 25km at once, and in winter, it's not easy, even with good tires and an awd. i also notice that there are more than one who does not even make the effort to take the turn.
it must have surprised more than one driver.
that being said, i have a few outings near my home which can be very difficult, even at 20km per hour. ice can hide under the snow and if you accelerate at the wrong time you can easily lose control, depending on your traction system.
nothing dangerous has it. people are just not good lol
it looks like a marde tire problem too. i see some skidding and they haven't even turned.
i think it's bad people, but it's also an easy place to fall for this kind of person.
its still a pretty fast voice that turns pretty fast. people do not slow down enough because they are on a fast track and we are afraid of getting knocked over. add to this the people who buy the cheapest winter tires possible. a road that never seems very snowy / icy and you have a perfect cocktail to crash.
it's a combination of the speed on the highway + the little distance to decelerate + the depth of the curve + the slope (on your videos it looks like there is a difference in level but it may be the angle because you are high).
one of the motus operandi of design is that if it is poorly designed common users will have a bad experience, even for experienced users. big parallel with bicycle accidents; several idiots say 'ah but if the bikes would respect the rules they would not be killed' well that's totally wrong, because since the public road is not well designed even experienced drivers and experienced cyclists will end up hitting the limits of the design of the infrastructure which is not adapted to their coexistence.
having said that, the drivers you film are probably not all nazi drivers; if you have an event that occurs so frequently it's really a design problem because mister madam everyone does not usually get into an exit ramp. seeing as you see tanks slalom on the way out, it's probably because the way it's designed the average car lacks road grip on the way out when trying to hit the lane at standard speed. for example you are in the left lane 200 meters before this exit at 100km / h, your deceleration allows you to take the ramp, let's say at 30km / h since you have no time to reach the 25km / h announced, you put on a slalom and then you pog the field because returned in slope your grip loose.
nice drift 38 seconds from the video
they like to go looking for french standards from france. why???? last example their tramway.
but the climate is different from where the problems start. the video gives an example.
**** alert alert the situation has not changed keep doing what you did this morning alert alert ****
was it really necessary to make me take the leap of my life in an exam to tell me something that i already knew? i don't believe no, fuck you alert not even urgent
me who thought it was going to be for essential and urgent messages ...
can't we opt out of this, i guess?
the worst part is that their alert interrupted my viewing of: the tree has balls.
exaggerate it as a priest !!!!
i had the female dog of my life with this warning asti, i thought it was a bomb threat so it was so strong, so not necessary
my comment in response to someone on another post ...
i still find that it is abused. this system is equivalent to the american presidential alert.
[wikipedia] ( indicates:
> the government issues three types of alerts through this system:
> - alerts issued by the president of the united states.
> - alerts involving imminent threats to safety of life, issued in two different categories: 
>  - extreme threats
>  - severe threats
> - amber alerts.
it was she who was falsely triggered in [2018 in hawaii] ( when i was in japan, i received the same type of alert for north korean missiles, for evacuations during a typhoon, and would have received if there had been an earthquake nearby. and that i had to take refuge. basically what the sound of the alert represents is someone from government / authority, like police, yelling into a megaphone “follow instructions, go to refugee, your lives are in immediate danger”.
even though in theory this is a message from the highest branch of the provincial, it is not a justified use to tell people that something is still in the same condition as it is. was before. the quebec website on alert [even indicates] ( that the alert is over.
it would be a normal message if, for example, the government instituted martial law, instituted very strict confinement or even evacuated a district around which they would establish a sanitary cordon. again, at the start of the pandemic, when the government finally announced lockdown, i would have found that justifiable.
in addition, apart from the number of cellphones compatible with alert techno, i am not convinced that the majority of the world really knows what it is. in the case of my rather elderly and tech-savvy parents who are both at risk according to the government, they ignore these alerts and haven't even looked at their phones earlier when it was issued.
what a misuse
criss i have a friend who takes it really hard the covid pi the restrictions i try to put up with it pi this text really made him flop and lose his mind. there are a lot of people who are having mental health issues right now and this post has not helped them at all. it is truly irresponsible.
yeah lol i really have nothing against the measures and everything but it was really too much earlier. everyone knows it. it wasn't an "urgent" message
i think i just had a heart attack.
even the people i know in ottawa have received the alert!
<< i'm not even in quebec, why am i getting this>>
this one was to say "no warnings!"
let them continue like that and nobody will read them the alerts (alert fatigue ahead) ... so the day that north korea sends us a missile or that the aliens invade us, we will be in the dark .
[deleted]
did the world who went on a trip to bronze get the message?
my old cell didn't get them and today i got the alert like everyone else. it's so good to be part of the gang.
now people can no longer say they didn't know;)
🚨🎶
oh no, if the world continues to do what they were doing we are in trouble in the dirty.
yeah. i live alone. someone tells me "omg we are going to reconfine ourselves". i was like, uh, we got deconfined? ahaha ...
except for going to the convenience store, to the grocery store, and to tim's drive-thru to grab a sandwich every now and then, i don't leave my house at all. i think since march, i've put like 2000km on my tank, and it's because this summer, i went to see my mother a few times when we could, and she lives a little far (80km) from my home .
they mentally prepare you for the announcement of the next lockdown.
it's probably for shortcut everyone who's going to say 'i didn't know' or 'the cops are suppose to give a warning'
with such a notification you can't pretend you didn't know.
i was also just before an exam!
in theory phones should be closed during an exam
what a horror you must have lived, it's not easy eh life?
imagine the tens of thousands of healthcare workers who are ripping it off right now and even questioning their entire careers as the system is crumbling under covid cases and it's about to become a good tick bin worse just before the busiest time of year.
in any case, they should take it upon themselves, eh, there are people sleeping or doing exams here.
/sarcasmoff
you can on android, i think it is not possible on iphone.
i have a prepaid sim card with petrocanada (no data) so no lte and no alert.
[don't piss me off, art.](
it's still important new information, it's not as if a state of health emergency had been declared 8 months ago ... oh wait a menute
chalice i hadn't even thought about it. the less fortunate in mental health must have had a great evening!
it's not as if the caq thought that mental health was important ...
gatineau also receives all alerts from ontario so we have double amber alerts. we get it from thunder bay to seven island
because if you are near a cell which transmits an alert you pognes you itou. it affects people in the area of ottawa / gatineau and gaspésie / acadie.
pu warning for marriages of 200 people?
i have it when i have it.
lol the government doesn't care about your safety.
because you have the right to gather together, you just need to find other people who have not received the message ...
did you turn off your phone, remove the dead battery, put it in a stocking that you slipped into the pile of woolen blankets in the laundry room in the basement?
yeah me too. on the other hand, i have an old cell phone (iphone 5s), maybe it has something to do with it?
i received it, my brother did not receive it. the only difference between the settings for our cell phone alerts is that i get amber alerts and he does not.
i imagine that the system is not yet perfect and that the alerts get lost: p
entering and leaving chslds and going to school? monsters!
seems to me that he's been preparing us for a good two weeks ...
you can't reconfine if you never deconfin!
here is
i didn't know it, i have no cell phone, no tv, no radio, i live in the woods.
i have an old cell flip, i wasn't listening to tv or radio
say those who want to
bha it's not everyone who has a cell phone. but it's everyone who is aware that we are in a pandemic
cringe in being
except that i don't think this alert had any use. everyone is already aware that gatherings are prohibited in the red zone and for those who decide to ignore the instructions, well it's not an alarm on their cell that will change anything. it's terrible what happens in hospitals in addition to the health personnel who are at their end but my point is that it is not an emergency alert that will make a difference, it does not contain anything that we did not know not already.
oh yeah? the whole gang of tens of thousands thinking about changing careers? shit man, you got the scoop! besides, you say the system is crumbling! it's not urgent, right? with all this information, shouldn't you do something? alert the media with your sources, i dunno ..?
/tayeuleaupire?
alerts are pushed by lte antennas, not vendors. the canadian rule is that you can't turn them off, so i'm willing to bet that even if you turn them off in android, it'll be the same!
reject humanity
go back to frog
if we go back to france, will the english speakers go back to england?
i prefer to read it like: “go back! fucking frog! to france: fuck, quebec. ”
it doesn't really make more sense, but it makes me laugh to think that it's anglos who warn us about erotic zombie frogs.
well, having been there for years, it happens quite regularly on this building. many frustrated anglo channel their rage on the office.
when you are intellectually incapable and / or you are too fragile emotionally to separate things, that's what it gives ...
as a teenager i lived between the oqlf building and the ludger duvernay house, he regularly had attempts to vandalize these buildings and smash the windows, the alarm systems woke us up regularly and several times i saw young people english getting arrested by the police for that.
it's so low effort that it's cute, i think. looks like 11-year-olds talking about your mom on xbox, like.
we all go back to france, on condition that we give them a lift to the united kingdom in passing!
go see the oqlf twitter and it's also disgusting, even from french speakers. i do not understand the hatred towards the oqlf ...
post it on r / canada i want to see the comments
how fragile these morons are to think that it would be a good idea to go and do this kind of graffiti on a building ...
"go back to france"
uh, we didn't really quit by choice.
this reassures me that french canada is best canada. fuck francophobia canadians! love of cajuns
why do so many people move to/live in a place that they hate when they have other options?  
(said as a guy from another province who moved to quebec)
i mean.. there's an easy solution that doesn't end up with you publicly shamed/in jail...
what do they have against quebeckers? i think some people just want to stir up hatred.
certainly a beautiful feather. a straightforward and calm claim. we see the effort in the choice of words given the obvious lack of space on the walls. unfortunately, it also seems that the lack of space operating in the skull of this individual has most likely spread over these bricks the little vocabulary he has. perhaps one day he (she) will understand the deep meaning of this poignant text.
what a beautiful building
me what kills me the most is the part of anglo which criticizes the will of the plq, however known for its proximity to the anglo community, to reform the oqlf. i speak only of my experience here, but i still often come across detractors of the oqlf since i have english-speaking knowledge, some go very far in their criticism (comparing it to the nazis for example). now that we want to reform this institution, we must necessarily disagree, even though this is how we improve something, by reforming it.
but it's us racists they say.
so will the guy from mtl with his pressure machine come and remove those hateful messages too?
really disgusting. whoever did this your just jealous quebec has an identity unlike the rest of canada and other english countries. 
i hope the police treat this as a "hate crime"
for general culture, the frogs is a nickname that the english give to the french
this is awful. nobody believes me when i say that quebecers / franco-canadians are among the biggest targets of racism in canada.
stop french canadian hate
okay, i'm going to return 62% of myself to france, 27% of myself to england, 10% to ireland and leave 1% in north america with my native american origins.
if this was a group against which racism is casually accepted than against quebecers, trudeau would cry and spend his week denouncing.
well, it's quite comforting to know that the hatex comments are made by someone who:
1. has no idea how to space letters.
2. apparently never learned to do "é".
3. spends his money buying canned paint for people he hates.
4. don't have the balls to sign his name.
5. nothing better to do.
based on spelling, hand writing and everything else i'm convinced this is the work of a albertan... also wtf? weren't the french here first?
this is stupid, and completely detestable. screw whoever wrote this.
it is appalling the extent of the discrimination that we suffer. what will it be next? the ban on wearing the sash? a shootout in a belle province ??
while i do not agree with this kind of vandalism, not all english speakers in quebec have "chosen to be here" and we are not all caves like this one.
despite my disagreement with the news regarding bill 101, i do not have the same feelings as the person who made this smear.
that's a shame.
damn. never expected to see anything like that
if they manage to get france to accept me by immediately giving me full citizenship and genuinely recognizing my diplomas and professional experiences, ok.
ouuuh i shit in my little french shorts.
it's sad
they keep forggetting quebecers were there first (after the native though)
ah cool, no more racism towards quebecers.
refreshing
the anglos are too mean 😢😢😢
the language of our region.
it is a beautiful language.
french here, we don't have much room to repatriate you all, but we will find some :)
more seriously, i take this opportunity to ask the question for my personal culture, what are the prerogatives of the oqlf in quebec (or even in canada if they spill over into the other provinces)?
here is someone who failed his history lessons.
when i see this kind of hash, i listen to manu. i remember.
/r/dontdeadopeninside
he's a guy all alone ... probably 16 years old ... that doesn't stress me too much ....
it's time to redo the boston tea party!
this so reminds me of the 'bomb the mosque' bit from four lions...
 *puffin says, 'find a target. '*  
*well, we got a target, bro.*  
*were all agreed.*  
*what is it?*  
*- its the mosque.*  
*- what?*  
*bomb the mosque,*  
*radicalise the moderates,*  
*bring it all on.*  
*ok, right. no, i like that.*  
*i do like that, thats brilliant.*  
*lets take out a bunch of muslims*  
*because theyre the real enemy.*  
*once weve done that,*  
*why dont we truck -bomb a kebab shop*  
*and fly a jumbo jet*  
*into wajs mums head?*
i dunno, un chalet in southern france near la mediterranean would be heaven to me.
is this the love in of 95?
but i don't understand! i thought it was us racists!? !!!
nice logic, after it is the french who settle in quebec ... 🙄
what does the bottom left say? looks like, "fk11 groo".
or the history of quebec memes.
bécosse for "backhouse"
to say that until i was 8-9 years old i was sure that a pinotte was a penis ... (i made the difference between peanut and pinotte on the other hand) when i learned the truth, i have everything then ask what was the real word for vagina and i wouldn't accept that it was vagina. i don't know why, but this moment marked my life more than learning the truth about santa claus.
thanks for listening to my ted talk.
let's be happy that there is a french spelling.
worse in france everyone says "peanuts" rather than "peanuts". let's admit that "pinotte" is less weird.
it's mine * asteur *
the same thing exists in japanese! backpack => bakupaku. baseball => basuballu.
or like everything is in english, we don't speak english, we read the words and we say them as we can.
after a couple of years it becomes the vocabulary for the thing.
[we "invented" pine butter] ( we can rename the basic ingredient if we want;)
[deleted]
* gallippeur *
it would be necessary to trace all the mechanical terms which were transformed!
ex: wire > ouaire.
do you want good peanuts, big "i do it po expensive"
tiguidou
tourlou
tour
edit: tchum, part
moe*
every day i get the "word of the day", three quarters of the time (i'm exaggerating) it's a word in english that comes from french. kind of words that if you are french-speaking and you use it with an english-speaking person, you will think that you don't know english well. examples: subitaneous, estaminet, box, felicitous, jewel, find, banter, capital letter.
there is an anglo who was happy to tell me that curfew comes from curfew. anglos do not think too much about the etymology of words, whereas we francophones it comes naturally to us.
let's say it's okay to take a few words from english.
i eat peanuts in pie ix station?
i console myself in the fact that i make my own memes
yeah sounds about right.
if you want to learn how to speak in quebecois, you just have to take an english-speaking word, and pronounce it with a quebecois accent.
a guy from ontario.
[deleted]
well done! fk the osti of tabarnak south of the border. band of flowing rectum.
#boycottsuperpowers 
#boycottrussiausaandchina
it's such an ironic meme, there is an extra 9gag tag on the meme and 9gag generally repost the reddit memes that were also stolen.
just
[f] bougette -> [a] budget -> [f] budget    
there's a whole lot worse in a lot of sense and more.
rédingotte = riding coat
bonhomme sept heure for bone setter.
paparmane for peppermint.
my cat thought that too. funny coincidence!
i was way too old when i learned that a bizounne was a penis. i always thought it was a vulva and i don't know why.
caca wet , ouach.
pinotte is the superior term
groundnut is the plant; peanuts: these are the seeds of the plant.
esti that chelou c't'un word weird.
at this hour = at this hour ... i have no real academic confirmation of what i'm saying here but it seems logical to me with the meaning of the expression!
there are tons of romanized terms like that.
in the words of the great bob gratton: "ah ben tabarnak!"
technically, you're 100% right. i would start a motion to change the name.
caliper tabarnak
working at the parts counter at canadian tire, i've heard gallipeur far too often for my sanity.
gasquette
toune de tune, but the other two come from what?
except unless i'm wrong, "peannut butter" is not part of english food culture. it's mostly popular in north america, so it's not entirely wrong.
1. it’s just a meme, chill
2. americans are our loud neighbors
3. peanuts originate from south america, to which the united states are way closer
if it is to be cave in the same way, you might as well close your eyes, criss danglo at must
nasty chili pepper
i don't know if it implied that i stole the meme but the 9gag came with the base format of the meme, the rest i did myself. i have photographic evidence if someone doesn't believe i just don't like putting my name on my stuff
first time i hear this one. the english took the word budget from the french bougette (the meaning of which is in no way related)?
ouch!
because (bi) zoune it looks like noune i imagine 😂
i don't thank you for that remark.
pardon me sir, but do you have any grey poupon?
yes, but also we say peanut oil.
** you have already seen
/ ftfu
i'll go to you -> mound
believe
the scariest part is that i understood almost everything.
other examples - other examples
there you go / kin
look at him / tchek lé
can you please move along! / déguédine caliboirge!
here are you glasses sir / kin té barniques le smat
my favorite: when there will be = mek'innaï
tokébecicitte
what a beautiful language
when will people learn to spell coronations correctly!?!
it is "disappointment", that it is written!
eventually / mann'né
chui anglo.
i will print it out and keep it in my pocket.
exactly / drette sô
ouash du conneries qc
i confirm, i say these sentences on a regular basis and there is no more quebecois than me.
i'm at the: chta ou chtau
ex :
i'm at the mall : chtau cent' d'achat 
i'm at the drugstore : chta pharmacie
i'm all stuffed
r/needsmorejpeg
but why? i’m currently learning french french and planning to go to quebec. how difficult is it going to be to speak/understand french there?
my boyfriend is learning french and there's nothing i like more than to hear him speak joual because of me
question from france: i did not understand "jtoute fourré" ...
disbelief that someone you know is the subject of a tva nouvelle bit on kiddy diddling: « bin wayoon! »
have afterwards created a new language hahaha
thank you! :)
you just have to write it in astheure english phonetics.
i would add:
eh! whayagonnado/ tuveukonfèze?
>it's because / spass
thank you so much! i learned metropolitan french and i was hoping to learn quebec french one day.
cursed english speaker here: fairacraire a thing?
it's now clear that the belters are purelaines
do you come from facebook to matante ginette?
i am not quebecois and and i understood all that esti
look / ga
take a closer look / ga more
where is it? = oussékîé
now = ast'heure
why? = because of
what time is it? = kelle hour kié
when? = kantèze ke
worst thing is they don't teach you this in the francisation courses. i struggled for years because of this.
i love our unique different language and ours
impeccable
step 1 is understanding each of these when someone speaks to you
step 2 is using them appropriately yourself.
hurry up. why not / awaye don
in saguenay:
why? / because ?
ski spasse
i know / elsé
i'm fed up! / chta boutte!
ok but as an american someone has to explain to me how it really works, i'm lost
what are you doing? / fait la?
ok, well / good, bath
damn it looks like ch'timi !!
*believe
i will run after you = my run after you
where were you ? = ayou was
it's not complicated messemb '!
"that's it!" that's it! 💯
from kessé
i have to feel the vibrations of the chariot through my seed so that the read is good
rare footage of jfk's 2nd shooter
there is clearly the mission impossible key in his headphones lol
maybe he was turned down in the sniper squad because he was too keen on doing headshots.
act like the job you want comme y disent.
lmao imagines that behind him tickles his feet
according to reports, the policeman you see there was in his neighborhood and wanted to play a joke on his wife. a neighbor saw her and took a photo, finding it funny.
i can help you with your lawn if you want ...
camper!
the pogo flair is very appropriate here.
“omega-6 sniper in position”
bin must reach its quota !!
beautiful grass
hahaahahahahhahahaha
ah lives reddit:
- the person who writes "c'tun moron mental" = 4 upvotes
- the person who writes "c'tun esti de givers de tickets" = 11 downvotes
hennn comme a call of duty
this is not a recommended ergonomic position. they risk getting injured and taking sick leave. cities should be required to add cushions to sidewalks. he also risks tearing his uniform, a crown asset that must be honored.
i recommend disciplinary action and a 2-day paid suspension or a week-long online diversity training.
coming from mirabel, it is quite clearly the worst city i have seen on the radar side. no surprises 😂
or otherwise none of us got it and in fact he is holding a camera to make a documentary on the police
ciborium, not hidden pentoute ....
chess bras chess bras. 
oops legs.
he can no longer be worn.
he must lie down on the floor.
🤪😂
it's sm st-jerome and not mirabel! just to be more precise hahaha
big flex not necessary the little elbows on the sidewalk ... go bencher yourself by shouting at each repetition, worse bag 'us patience
tobacco; you like your job, my boyfriend!
tired the chicken ti
it's me where there are tunes of nick romano before that fits in?
wow they'll do anything eh lol
tactical
distribution of plums in mirabel?
he really wanted to be a sniper in life
ah in which society we lived? how is it that the one who violates the regulation is made nobler than the one who enforces the said regulation? welcome to quebec!
dun dun dundun dun dun dundun didoudouooo didoudouooo dun dun dundun.
as intense as the sq operations on victoria in the late evening
1312
we call that a mental moron.
it is this kind of cop who causes the most problems. what zeal! wow. ticket givers first, police second .. see 5th.
municipal police estates, ticket machines
ridicule!
the kind of ti-coune who thinks he's playing a call of duty.
really nothing else to do with these mardies.
to read some comments here the world must be happy when a child gets hit by a motorist driving too fast in a school zone!
the most despicable job that exists
wtf is he doing?  getting ready to call in air support?  what a wanker.
calisse that it's pathetic
what does that translate to, cunt?
lol man i exploded into laughter thank you!
in short, the tank must be "grained" ...
confirmed vibrations
be! that part!
ahahahahaha
shit don't eat that expired in 2017.
i eat breasts, spicy or not, at all opportunities.
you should really have a "trouduction" flair, it would be worth it, i think
who is the toton who translated that?
she passed date
no prob with turkey, but it's white rap that i don't like to hear.
it gives me the fuck this translation.
breast for supper .. 😳😳
then? have you tasted it?
supposedly if you're still alive afterwards.
287 grains is not a big dinner.
2017? lmao
yes
uhhhhhh expired in 2017? of course what's a new asshole cost
kewoua ?!
lawl
who takes care of doing the label translation like that?
r / patamogle
potamogler
ayoye, even google translate translates it perfectly ...
gr = seed
but no!!!!! hahahaha !! wow! i don't know how they could have made this mistake! it's so funny! xd
yum my favorite food
it's just better before, it can still be good
it was posted here in 2017 itou…
there appears to be condensation in the plastic package so it was probably already expired when the photo was taken. 100% sure it's a mold kingdom
if i put on sriracha sul nipple, would you fuck me like that?
i do not understand. turkeys are not mammals, so they don't have breasts.
they can be on the couch, yes, but they don't have breasts.
give him his gold.
r/trouduction
i always called it "translations" because it is already one (instead of saying translation) and it describes exactly what is happening (a lateral movement without changing from one language to another)
bad dum tsssss
the inventory is not running too fast.
anne.
under a vacuum!
old tee, shit.
at worst if he doesn't want to, i love sriracha ...
*i have nipples greg. can you milk me?*
i like this sentence so much without context haha
if i close my eyes, surely
i came to tell you that i had cross-posted on a dedicated subreddit (/ r / merdiquetranslation) but i see that you have also created a space dedicated to this kind of errors.
(yes, i shamefully come to advertise the sub that i created but promised, i don't want to sell you anything)
good day to you dear french speakers from across the atlantic!
oh!! perfect that! i joined him as soon as i saw the button hahaha
i thought more of an xd department
because i remember the distant 2017?
they have a better name, trouduction, that's perfect, right?
had to. it has its place in the redditosphere.
when you start rambling on what you saw in another era, yep, a sign of old age!
we no longer talk about happy days, advice is not prohibited.
it's true, i like it a lot! although i also really like the bad translation of translation. but i am moving the subject.
imagine receiving $ 150,000 for life for pissing off your coworkers for 3 years. thanks justin!
looking quickly i thought it was pierre-yves mcsween and i was confused.
governor general, lieutenant governor ... it's so outdated ...
personally, i think we should perhaps adopt a more presidential system. we could have the house of commons with a prime minister, who takes care of the legislative agenda. and a president who takes care of the executive agenda. to have a governor general acts as head of state, but who in reality does not make any decision. it's no use.
stolen louse
this function is a joke.
considering she was really a bad fit for the job (it's one of the most public jobs in canada, and she seemed to be keen on protecting her privacy as much as possible even wanting to make changes. at rideau hall, toxic personality or not, she was a bad recommendation from the pm), one wonders if she did it for the money. i don't know how she got offered the job, but she could have said no.
i might be pretty much the only one in my gang, but i find this controversy a little ridiculous. payette was a boring boss, yes. did we hire her to be an outstanding manager? absolutely not. are officials for whom the slightest cross-talk or argument deserves a visit to human resources, is it common? enough, in my experience. payette was hired to strut a symbol of canada's achievement in a ceremonial role, period. the function is pretty superfluous when i leave, and i won't cry too much if payette doesn't get this pension, but i find it overdone to blow this up like trudeau's gross lack of judgment.
it's been a long time since i know he lives on another planet.
a drake meme. fitting.
best drayette meme ever !
calvary!
granny very well done 10/10 for the form
op deserved my hat like that.
the reason why they sent us into space was to see more of his face i guess? i don't know, don't know her.
this is why beautiful communism is always in the lead! "viva la revolución!"
i do not understand how we see obvious aberrations like that every week and then there are still qcs who are federalists.
at some point, it must be said that the federal government is a massive embezzlement.
do you mean canadarm?
it's in the constitution, it's not really because of justin 🤷🏻‍♂️
does she really need it?
calisss ahahaha yes, especially top-left
damn, musty ...
wo wo wo. we calm down, please. it sounds like a republic instead of a monarchical democracy your business. can not have that in canada, not allure. / s
we have an executive dyarchy in france and ... believe me it's no better than your system, besides yours looks a little healthier
i can't wait to see when / if we have a king instead of a queen if this will change public opinion. the queen is like what "cute" that we have always had. seems to me that having a king just doesn't have the same aftertaste.
we should rather copy the swiss system. a committee that runs the country, not a person or a party. consensus until the end.
concretely it is useless.
but psychologically i feel better with the idea that the prime minister is just borrowing the authority of the queen, who is herself more of an image than anything else.
i don't have the right words to express it, but when i see what is going on, say, in the united states, with the president who earns himself a kind of absolute respect as if he were a monarch, with the power to just decide that this or that crime was okay after all ...
i don't know, it makes me cringe. it's like trying to put traditional charm and ostentatiousness into a modern invention. mister thing the elected populist because the taouins believed his silliness on no taxes, full of services, instead of the official representative of the british crown, with centuries of tradition behind it.
in short, it doesn't bother me so much that it's useless. anyway their day-to-day work looks a lot like high civil servants + diplomacy work + ceremonial stuff, right? i feel like you would have to pay other people to do this somehow anyway.
but hey especially in quebec, i think this is due for r / the10thdentist my business.
for murder
for a pension of 150k / year for life, i would have done it too.
i found the liberal party of canada member, gang.
as an astronaut, she was more than competent! i do not believe that his intelligence and / or his sense of leadership required to be an astronaut is questioned.
there's the same thing in quebec, it's called the lieutenant-governor 🤷🏻‍♂️
as if governments in quebec never do anything stupid ...
how does that imply the federalists? can you develop?
you can be a federalist without being a monarchist.
i believe that if you decide to be a sovereignist or a federalist based on the bad moves the province makes against the federal government, you will never stop changing sides.
to me, it's much more about who you think you look like the most. who you belong to as an individual.
personally i have always found canada to be about 5-10 groups of people all coming together to feel superior to americans lol. proud to still be together, despite our differences, laughing at the banana republic in the south 🥲
the canadbras
don't you mean: "don't you mean the canadarm?" ?
1- trudeau circumvented the rules of application for the post of governor general, candidates normally had to be examined, scrutinized. it didn't happen.
2- [according to this article:] (
> trudeau raised eyebrows in september when he defended payette after he was questioned about the allegations regarding his behavior. he implied at the time that he was not interested in her leaving her post.
he defended it!
edit:  de belles perles dans cet article = [trudeau refuses to apologize or take any responsibility for decision to nominate julie payette as governor general](
he dodges the questions:
> during a press conference on friday, trudeau dodged repeated questions from reporters about his responsibility in the disastrous and unprecedented end to payette’s tenure as governor general, as well as the adequacy of the vetting process that failed to note similar issues she caused at previous workplaces.
he chose her personally:
> “this is very bad for justin trudeau because julie payette was his choice. she was not vetted properly, and this once again calls his judgment into question. 
he scrapped the candidate assessment committee:
> since payette’s resignation, opposition parties have requested that the liberals recreate a non-partisan appointments committee that would oversee future nominations. trudeau disbanded a similar committee before he appointed payette in 2017.
is it written in the constitution that payette should be given the job? ah well coliss! aja!
the beggars would like to have their say that wouldn't surprise me.
there is no perfect system. personally, i remember the harper years. 2008-2014. it was a one man show. everything was decided in his office. often ministers would learn from reading press releases the key decisions on issues that they are technically supposed to be responsible for.
it depends on the king. i expect a potential king william to be relatively popular. but if we have to hit king charles first, on the other hand ...
> with the president who deserves a kind of absolute respect as if he were a monarch
if there's anything trump has learned in 4 years, it's that he's not a monarch. and the judicial system has fulfilled its mandate very well: to ensure that the rules, the procedures are respected. he wanted to abolish obamacare, he was unable to do so. he wanted to hide his tax returns. to date, all the courts which have looked into the question have proved wrong.
> with the power to just decide that this or that crime was okay in the end
if you're talking about the power to forgive. i admit he abused it. especially if you compare with its predecessors. it is a constitutional mechanism and one of the only unbalanced powers in the american system.
personally, i believe that this power should be abandoned purely. as much in quebec as in canada. it exists. it is more rarely used.
> it doesn't bother me that much that it's useless
if it is of no use ... but it receives its salary for life. that we keep the governor general as a protocol character, at the limit okay. but give him the same social benefits as a member of parliament. a deputy who does not contribute to his pension fund ... does not have a retirement pension. point.
gwos chief bandi '
this is also my case, but i would say that the residence at the citadel is an excellent reason to accept this position ...
i think a lot of people would have taken the job just for the lulz and the board. "i see no other reason to have this job there anyways."
of course, minus the need to destroy the sanity of your staff by treating them like shit, because that's not a lulz and fucking bad attitude.
well, i know, but having a lieutenant governor who is the representative of the queen at the provincial level, well it comes from being a canadian province.
i hope you are aware that by being independent there would no longer be these positions (governor general / lieutenant governor)
well at least it would be just 1 silly government instead of 2.
well i understand what you mean but if you are a federalist without being a monarchist, you are somewhat in the same boat as the sovereignists; you realize that what is established suck, and you would like something else.
because the status quo is a package deal.
in all honesty, the history of canada is more often than not how to make sure to plunder quebec without it really being part of it.
there has never really been a united canada, these are stories that we are told very young.
all these sayings that canada is not the united states whereas the entirety of canadian culture outside quebec is a simple extension of the american anglosphere; just tell me that popular canadian artists are not just american stars of the drake or bieber genre.
toronto has become a practically american city in every way. just seeing the ubiquitous culture; american tv, american music, american food.
it is only made a facade. an open secret.
if there is one thing that is certain is that as a francophone, even if you were born under the same maple leaf as ontarians or albertans, you are culturally much more distinct from them than they are compared to others. to the americans. to deny it is to be in the field, solid.
still, the federal government does very little for quebecers and has been doing so for ages. like the states, the federal government does very little for americans. when you look around the world, the richest countries are often the smallest and most concise; switzerland, japan, finland, luxembourg and so on.
all federations, great kingdoms, historically always end up collapsing under the weight of their own idiocy. it is the normality of things and it is only a question of time; it was for the ussr and yugoslavia. it will also probably be for china, the usa, india, and of course canada.
i'm only proactively positioning myself on the right side of the story, actually.
the quebecois identity is much more concise than the canadian identity, which claims to be bilingual but is nowhere really so, which claims to be tolerant except towards its own francophones ...
in all honesty i say that very poetically but i am above all a cheap fuck who is tired of having me robbed by the federal government when it gives us nothing like lol we can not even ask for help from the army in a global pandemic without that a liberal bozo esti tell us that we ask too much like chalice.
man check the example of julie payette; what is the use of paying so much for a post that is used so little? what will remain after, what legacy does that leave us, the poor people still struggling to pay for this kind of stupidity? even liberals no longer like royalty.
the federal government has especially impoverished quebec throughout its entire history and especially its people who to this day remain one of the poorest in north america despite its rich culture and its perseverance to survive through the ages.
the branada
you will iron!
come back and see us when life is normal, please.
your poutine looks good! where did you take it?
when you go away
if i understand correctly, you are telling us next time.
take care buddy
welcome back and come back to see us, we're not outgoing!
i hope you enjoyed your time in quebec.
the thumbnail looks like a jacuzzi
don't forget to bring you a sachet of sauce when you leave! you will soon miss poutine .... or learn how to make your own gravy and find a source of curds from the other side!
i don't know you that much, but we will miss you ... come back when you want!
damn how you learned french fluently in 9 months, your french is really good
spill yours beans pls m8
where are you from?
chow my boyfriend
the quebecois dream !!! good luck on your new adventure!
come back anytime!... always welcome!
omg i want one !!! my favorite! 😍😍😍
always nice to hear people appreciate my province!
criss of beautiful poutine, i'm jealous in tbk
it still looks like a tabarnak of good poutine.
same feeling i get when i cross the river between g town and ottawa.
the informant of buckingham is finally unmasked !!!!
we will be able to take our rockies there, we will always have our river !!
can someone translate please
it's r'soudra!
looks like a serious stomach ache, no?
whys the cheese on your poutine not shredded?
we are not outgoing ...
i hope so !
it was a small snack bar next to the main street in lanoraie, the sauce and fries were good but the cheese was a bit too creamy for my taste!
in my homeland the uk
parizeau <3
a jacuzzi full of pot that would be disgusting.
in fact, i've been learning french for almost a decade, it wasn't that easy! if you heard me speak in french that would show you that i still have a lot to learn haha
i am from england :)
it means “sayonara,” in quebecois
-	henri hill
food cravings in france?
> small snack
clear that it is at least 8/10
in this area, saint-sulpice has better riverside poutine!
several years ago, on an extended stay in the uk, i went to a snack bar equivalent that specialized in * chips *. a * chip shop *? i don't remember the name, it was a counter like * kebab shops *, but they only served * chips * with several choices of toppings. i think i was in liverpool or manchester. it was 2-3am.
in short, in the choice of toppings, there were * chips and gravy * and * chips and gratted cheese *. i asked to mix the two to make a semblance of poutine. the salesman looked disgusted, the * chav girl * behind us was horrified.
it was mediocre, but under the influence of alcohol, i found quebec a little with my pseudo-poutine.
welcome back to the uk!
you write better in french than the majority of people in the west island of montreal :)
nice. thank you for learning french and you will always be welcome in the french-speaking commonwealth :)
ah shit. good luck. with all the cases that there are over there 😬
the bretons at asterix
bri'ish
wrong.
rené lévesque.
...
parizeau is about money and ethnic voting .. shame.
yeah but not in the sense that you mean hahaha
welcome home, but if you want, here is also your home astheure. you will come back to see us.
he's trying to re-colonize us.
gtfo anglo trash bastard lol
all jokes aside, it was lovely to have you and thank you for talking with us in french during your time here.
i just checked on google maps, yeah that's it!
username is checking out!
this poutine man.
it's true, the chip shop is the glue of our fragile british society!
what i find funny is that the idea of fries covered in gravy and cheese curds really appeals to me, but crisps covered in grated cheddar gravy pis looks like an unnatural atrocity.
i have flashbacks of 3 days of eating touskis when i was a kid.
it doesn't beat the kriss-tou in rivière rouge!
and a little further along the 50, between the airport and montée dalton, you can see the alabri warehouses. but i admit that touski-fit is better haha
touski fit icite
on the edge of the 50?
this is close to us! cursed that we are from high society by us.
toutskifit in my baidène c't'une cries of good poutine, ké?
"tousse-qui-fi"? ah! all that fits!
now imagine yourself as an adult with the fridge full of leftover meals your mom doesn't. it would be the fucking dream.
it's sick how the touskis is practically the expression of all families! hahahaha
there was a "call in the bin" in gatineau as well.
> touskis
wow. after all these years i had never understood alabri's pun!
think your reason
yes, just after entering by the 50 by the ch. by masson
hahahahha so much.
me in the evening: good what am i doing. i have no ideas, my fridge is empty and i don't want to go to the grocery store.
college i make a mega portion of pasta or potatoes or burger patties, and i eat the same for lunch and dinner for a week. then i could eat that for 2 months because i'm sick of it.
my grandmother gives me food sometimes. she is syrian but also makes indian, italian, greek dishes, etc. this is delicious. i should adopt it!
ahh the good old days hahah! mine lived nearby for a few years when i was a young adult and she often broke in with my emergency keys to put roast, lasagna, shepherd's pie (etc) in my fridge hahah. the perfect crime, no victim dared to complain about it!
you describe my life and it disturbs me
to compensate for this, you could try making two mega portions of a dish. it allows you to alternate, at least.
(or bin a soup ..)
mother's food is good, but grandmother's food is a higher caliber.
enjoy it, though. grandmother's food, at some point, you can't have any more.
yes! my brother told me the exact same thing last night. i have to try
yes 😪😪 must take advantage of it. especially when she prepares you unique dishes that you find nowhere else.
i have to go cook with her and film it all to learn.
i was in the old building looking for where i had parked my tank when it happened, i heard that on the radio when i left .... tse ...
grandma's creators are sometimes geniuses. "covid continues to covid" too perfect xd
[deleted]
i'm copying and pasting an fb post from an emergency dispatcher friend (911) that gives clues about how québec en alerte works.
he talks about the kidnapping case of the 2 young people in lévis (mr. carpentier) and the samurai attack.
"as for the two young girls, the system was used precisely. the amberqc program is one of those which use the alert but not the only one. one can wonder whether the chain of command was too long in this case. -there (police service which does not have the appropriate level of service and which must entrust the investigation to the sq, it adds delays in the transmission of information and decision-making).
quite certain that in the case of the attack in quebec,
1- the level of confirmation at the time of the event would never have made it possible to launch a public alert (via this system or another) and
2- it was local, not a collaboration with the ministry. do not forget that for a well-founded attack, the 911 central treats hundreds of them that are unfounded. the alert would be on 100% of the time if it was used whenever a call is in progress somewhere in quebec. in quebec, when it was confirmed, it was also under control. "
the sword killer killed 3 people? i thought it was just 2? (note that there are 2 too many, just saying)
as a night worker: fuck this system.
didn't i finally get the message from the govt on the cell?
[deleted]
with the holidays coming, feliz covidad
saying that covid just keeps covidering is a good example of how people get numb when the death toll gets too high… these just become statistics.
there are several studies on this phenomenon.
not the same government.
oh, you're right! i did this meme quick quick for friends and i had 3 in mind for some reason i don't know.
me neither, that must mean that the rules do not apply to us.
rip
out of curiosity, what do you have as a cell model?
do you understand that we are talking about the useless alert we received today when nothing had changed? 🤡
it's like anything, it becomes impossible to live in a state of constant distress, eventually we normalize even the worst.
> people become numb when the death toll gets too high
covid killed 0.09% of quebecers in 10 months. the vast majority were already in their 80s.
we will talk about "too high".
i would inquire about the actual deaths by covid, because indeed, no numbers match.
we will have a normal increase in deaths in the year 2020 in quebec, i.e. ~ 2,500-3,000 more deaths than 2019 (correlation 1.03x). still, there should have been 6,000 more covid deaths than 2019, proving that not everyone had a confirmed covid death in the first place, so yes the numbers are skewed. on the one hand, if we consider that there have really been 6,000 deaths from the covid, this would imply that the year is the best in the history of quebec for other diseases. on the other hand, if we erase the 6,000 deaths marked covid, we end up with a death rate in the normal range. otherwise 0.1% up, i'll let you calculate 0.1% of 70,000 deaths.
it should also be understood that influenza is practically tested twice as often as usual, but yet, we have reduced our cases of influenza beyond 1000% this year.
in short, before shouting to those who do not want to respect the sanitary rules, please take into consideration these figures which we are given on the inspq site.
one death is a tragedy, a million deaths is a statistic.
[deleted]
good for them, lol
or that we're really not important lol.
j'imagine.
google pixel 3a. usually i receive them, that's why i'm surprised.
i wouldn't be ready to say it's useless though. according to the rad (radio-canada) poll, 40% of people planned to break the rule and get together anyway. i believe that the alert will remind several people that we are in a serious situation (my brother decided tonight not to go to see our parents at christmas \ [but it was probably more the fines of $ 6,000 that went wrong. 'changed their mind \])
no, i'm just getting 5g in my cabin.
i see too much fooling around on this subject while there are always deaths due to the situation, perhaps it is because none of you have known relatives who were victims. in the meantime, it's funny to notice that these are the same people who are the first to complain about this same situation.
> covid killed 0.09% of quebecers, in 10 months
and the sword killer killed 0.00000035% of quebecers over the same period. the meme seems to indicate that the system sent an alert for something benign while it went silent during another major event. however, if we take the time to put things into perspective, we realize that the "covid which continues to covid" will kill more people today than the quebec sword killer.
0.09% out of millions of people is still a lot. you don't just have to think in stats.
absolutely, the government of nova scotia doesn't really have a good excuse.
squealing not an emergency for the vast majority of us at 12 o'clock in the tank for example
i don't agree, it's a warning system. an alert is an emergency, and what we got was a reminder. a reminder perhaps necessary, but which did not justify the use of a system that would be used if the bombs fell on our heads.
look at the same, no one is minimizing the covid, we are talking about an unnecessary alert received on our cells today when nothing had been sent to quebec while the other killer was on the prowl.
prove to me that this 0.09% is not distorted.
what i notice is that people are dying from diseases that affect old age, hence the normal annual increase in deaths in quebec.
the older people get, the more they are at risk.
remember that the average age of death is higher than life expectancy too, a good indication that these people would have died soon after.
fyi, the average age of death linked to covid is 83.7 years
life expectancy in quebec, 83 years.
the alert system can be located according to cell towers.
i already watch. everything is already activated, by default. i even shut down and turn on the cell again. condemned to die, that's it! : ')
yes, you compare the incomparable. these are two distinct and fundamentally different events, so of course we do not take the same measures for each.
so covid adds 0.7 years to our life expectancy. yo c hot criss.
"good indication of the fact that these people would have died shortly after"> can we stop with the counter stats and especially the mathematical enormities? the life expectancy at birth may be 83 years old, but the life expectancy of a person who is 83 years old today is not 0 (7-8 years it seems to me, i tell you lets check)
so, was the alert not necessary? so, do you agree with op? so why did you write your post, which implied that op minimizes covid?
it works the same with people who survive covid. there are people of 100 who will survive without any problems.
virality and mortality is very questionable and in my opinion is not a justification for excessive health measures which 1. for the most part do not make sense, and which 2. brings much bigger problems ...
it's even, in my opinion, not strict enough because people keep coming together and it doesn't help curb the covid.
the alert is required. large-scale preventive measures have been taken with covid, so it is normal and necessary to receive an alert!
the alert is not strict enough? what are you talking about ? an alert cannot be more or less strict, picks up.
nothing has changed today buddy, no need to warn the world that they can go on living like they did this morning.
at 11:00 am the government advised that there would be an alert at 2:30 pm. ok but you just talked about it there, why put an alert ??? that makes no sense and that was used to fuck all. ah worse to answer you, i have two people very close to me who died of it.
;)~
as far as i agree with the spirit of what he says, the protesters in question are not here for the climate. they just want to have their piece of the pie.
wasn't it rather to get more royalties from this event? because there's a nasty difference between being against something and only being for if you keep getting millions / billions that you can burn into anything without being accountable to anyone.
lol i do not identify with the authorities in the west.
slightly misleading eh 🤷
not as if the demonstrators were there to be good guys. they have financial interests, they don't care about the climate.
it is only for royalties.
worse yeah the reporters had no business there, really irrelevant the tweet.
worse the downvoters, go inform yourself instead of seeing everything with your tinted glasses
canada is an oil state. of course they will protect their main export. no party at the federal level is ready or has a plan to counter the economic collapse that will follow.
that shit starts at the top. trudeau bleats about reconciliation and then sends in the cops to remove indigenous land defenders. i'd almost prefer a tory, at least they're honest about their colonialism.
they even arrested 2 journalists. source: 
no one noticed that was happening. 2 more weeks and they had the national press with them, the site would not have advanced bin bin considering the situation in the south of the province.
"they're doing it just for the cash" is another way of invalidating their identity and their sovereignty, it's a bit like canada.
canada is one of those shithole countries trump is always talking about. lol
if you want to stop building pipelines and using oil, take some responsibility for it. stop using things that are created with oil. that includes the phone or computer you're typing on.
we're not producing oil for fun. we're producing it, because you're demanding it.
it's the hard truth, but people don't realize that they're the problem. on one hand they're chanting to shut down the oil industry, on the other, they give no thought about supporting it when they buy all those useless plastic trinkets and shit.
a little less consumerism at the personal level will do a lot more than protesting. if they're not selling the shit, they're not bothering plowing down a pipeline through native land.
this is like antivax  covid patients fighting with their nurses
barnak. there are many ignorant and ill-informed world in these comments lol
and canadians will still hop their asses online and pretend everything is cool and their country is the place to be, what a joke 💀💀
excuse me but where is that? western canada or quebec?
votes in trudeau for the third time, continues to complain about having the same government...
not really a link between the two...
obviously posted by someone who wasn’t there. textbook example of ‘don’t believe everything you read online’. there is enough tragedy no need for lies.
journalists weren't allowed to be there. what exactly is the problem with calling the police? this tweet is so out of context.
and people wonder why i say canada sucks despite living here
dumb comparison when  most of the treaties voted for it
and in addition we kill the seals ...
if it’s not sunny out, it’s climate change. floods are going to happen and will always happen. ohh ya political party’s are all corrupt, don’t let them divide you.
like they say “i don't want to be that guy” but where is the proof that it's linked to climate change
ya, way to go trudeau.
[deleted]
say it ain't so! the infestation of dipshit cops that want to play army has spread north :(
>canada is a company
john a. macdonald, get out of this body!
good old trudeau, advocating for environmentally friendly measures in the morning then announcing the purchase of a pipeline by the federal government in the afternoon.
historically, this is pretty much the principle of canada. you don't have to go back very far to understand that the territory is essentially used for the enrichment of several large companies in the anglo-saxon sphere for decades. for nearly 200 years, the hudson's bay company [owned more land than the "civilian" government] (
the people slowly forgot, but nothing has really changed (whether conscious or unconscious). canada is still today a country where the majority of wealth comes from the exploitation of natural resources. you have to read noir canada too to understand that it is still a problem in our time.
it's not the small factories in beauce or the head offices in mississauga that make us have one of the highest standards of living on earth. it is a resource-producing colony that is made to believe that it is something more "noble".
the cause would be better if we were able to call the bullshit of those who exaggerate the facts or who are downright irrelevant, either out of malice or because they are ill-informed, question that they stop polluting and defocusing the issue. message.
in the past, the documentary seal: the film, which exposed the manipulations behind the anti-seal hunting lobbies, made me completely lose all respect for this cause. and i'm pretty sure the same thing happens on a smaller scale every time someone posts something that is immediately debunkable to someone who follows the news less.
they want to help but in the end they hurt more than anything else.
if by having their share of the pie, which is indeed the right, it makes the project more expensive so that there is, the less it would have a significant impact on canadian carbon production
as i understand it, the elected leaders have all agreed.
who do they represent those who demonstrated?
the humans who are part of the first nations should not be accountable to anyone.
of course, quebec is 100x better. we all know the great environmentalist spirit of uncle legault 🤡🤡🤡
it's the rcmp. the rcmp esti.
you have to be cynical to always believe it's a $$ story. there are many people for whom the protection of certain values, as here for example the protection of their ancestral territory, is more important than money.
it is as if i were saying that the quebec sovereignist movement was there just to receive more subsidies from the federal government.
> worse the downvoters, go get information instead of seeing everything with your tinted glasses
you could also have written "and those who do not think like me are ignorant", but you would have seemed imbued with yourself.
your on reddit. 70% of the world read the headline only. despite.
journalists have the right to disregard a court injunction ?!
wow!  thank you for telling us exactly what the fossil fuel companies want us to think!  
reduce regulations, takeover our governments, brainwash our people.  no more.
your brain damage is showing
trudeau voters triggered af by your comment
can’t imagine being this dense. 😬
> we cannot stop the oil from being taken from the ground
we can, it's just that we aren't going to be the ones that get flooded to death and have to deal with hundreds of millions of bangladeshi refugees. it's destroying the world, but we don't give a shit. 
so yeah, let's reward oil and gas with some more pipelines, and maybe if we make enough profits we'll have enough money to plug our ears from the millions of deaths we caused.
i don't understand, how does oil come out of the ground massively without human intervention?
> the oil is coming out of the ground no matter what
that's false. higher transportation cost is a deterrent to investment in production.
don't take my word for it, it's what the banks financing these projects are saying:
> regulatory uncertainty and ongoing transportation issues have made it less likely that we’ll see the investment and production growth assumed in the “aggressive growth” scenario of energy matters
we are being used as a subsidiary of america and when we run out of oil, an entire province is gonna be hit with quite the fucking brick. and they’ll either wake up, or eat themselves.
the problem is that we cannot demonstrate by being against the curfew only without coming together with the gang of degenerates "libâhrtèh!" who passed their elementary maths ...
fa chau
i was called a simp at legault yesterday because i suggested that someone change their supper time. thanks for this granny.
esq is there really a difference between having a curfew at 9:30 am instead of 8:00 am when speaking medically?
edit: grammar
it's bad, yes, but seeing all the hams that are in the parks without masks and stuck on top of each other, we don't have much choice; there will never be enough ass kicks for all these beautiful people.
the majority of the world is still stuck eating shit because of a minority. it is the law of life ...
if you let go of social networks for 1 full day, you won't see them anymore!
"essential travel only"
there are like 2 million people riding motorcycles, these people stop at the gas station, buy a coffee, chat there. to give an example.
there are serious confinement fckall in quebec, the world is pissed off worse i understand.
thursday pm i chillais outside pi there is a tank which passed slowly in the streets of chicoutimi yelling that there was an anti-mask demonstration the next day and to be present. it was annoying.
it's an umbrella measure because there are too many idiots.
> cé evil curfew
# yes.
hahaha this is a good one!
stacause of cav like you shu in marde
hahaha
let's give the microphone to our young people in elementary school to cry out for freedom!
beautiful 😂
the curfew is indeed shit, note.
>cé la tells lego
dictator legros *
ps: it comes from trudeau lol, big up to those who grabbed the reference.
too bad that the 2 camps in quebec at the moment are the "good guys" who follow the "rules" without complaining and the "covidiots" supposedly all illiterate who say to themselves that maybe we are on a downward slope not evil and that maybe something should be done about it ...
quebec, quebec, quebec ... the ridiculous kills!
the bar is lowered in esti to have upvotes .....
yep. i understand the logic behind the curfew and i understand what they want to accomplish with it. but it shouldn't be a "baseline" measure that lasts for months and months. it is the emergency measure when you lose control and it is she who should go first in my opinion when you regain control.
i wouldn't mind protesting against the curfew, but i don't want to get caught up in photos with anti-vaxx and anti-mask.
the absence of human contact, socializing, exchanging is a necessary reference for the majority of people. in the absence of this activity, the only alternative is social media. but there is no balance in virtual exchange and many are caught in a destructive spiral into the abyss of the worst that humans can do.
social media, one cannot live without them, but life with them is impossible.
les farfadas!
your comment is +250.
all of the responses you received agree with you.
seems to me that if there was a demo today, it would be yours.
as far as i know, the demonstration for the resumption of sport in quebec at the beginning of march went relatively well and the conspirators were quite disappointed. i wasn't there, but it looked pretty good from the outside.
but that's a problem with almost all demos. almost all the time you have a small group of zouf who want to have sex.
in quebec you could demonstrate against the curfew and the third link. that should filter out a lot of those unwanted people.
perhaps in smaller towns, but this is more so in large centers. there have been demonstrations against covid measures which were specifically anti-qanon since february in montreal. especially with trump out of the set ...
you will know that i have often sunk my maths in elementary school worse that i am not conspiratorial and anti-measures so far, good!
^ (i was good at french ok)
i'm not sleeping!
fa bo
even then, if there is supper at his place as he shouldn't have to change his supper time.
the virus is particularly virulent between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m.
the science behind the curfew seems non-existent to me.
"noui" the virus is not bad after 8:00 am, but since the curfew cuts the evening in two, it is less worth inviting people to dinner. so possibly less grouping, etc.
speaking of precisely that, here is the set last night: [ danemark(
who needs a mask when you can be in groups of 5-10 people ten centimeters apart? people are complaining about the measures in place, but people are also screeching morons.
so because people are not following the measures, there needs to be a curfew? they also do not respect the curfew. too much to ask is like not asking enough
before or after 8 p.m., i don't really see the impact.
totally disgusting as a culture of automatically blaming others. it's not the other's fault if you eat shit, they haven't imposed anything on you as far as i know. you eat mustard because legault decided so (on a totally arbitrary basis) and you will continue to eat it if you continue to accept all the measures without asking yourself a question. you are not legault's or anyone else's whore, do what you want with your life, you were not born to work as a slave during the day and lock yourself in your cell afterwards. virus fatal at 0.01% or not.
if you think an 8am curfew is justified given the current circumstances, allow me to tell you that you are completely endocrine. you may be afraid of the virus and it is totally within your rights. others don't want to waste their lives and they are totally within their rights too.
what i do not understand is why the police do not crack down on these cases. they are often described in the media as "being at the scene, no offense was given". why? at least they give a warning to the cellars who are stupid.
running outside this morning, i passed a group of sixteen adults in a peloton of bikes, all stuck within a yard of each other, pedaling at high speed. no mask.
i mount mine on my face a bit before i pass them and 2-3 of them are staring at me.
it's incredible. after more than a year of measurements and a third wave that hits hard, people still do not understand.
an offense and your take you home and we weld your door, china-style.
i let go of the news and the lectures too.
i don't know how people cope with this.
it's mentally aggressive.
they have passed on to the root.
if he had sharpened the knives too at least that would have been handy. manif tomorrow! knife sharpening today! '' bonus if he does the extra skates, although in april it's zealous preparation, sharpening skates.
call the police and say there's a predator trying to coax the kids.
upvotes ... it's not the 5th food group ... you can live without it.
lockdown skeptics are bad! = au moins 100 upvotes sur r/quebec.
i'm not saying the opposite but so much to do!
exactly, and i would like to see them be transparent and honest with workplaces, schools, daycare centers, etc. before...
[deleted]
bof, the dude just does not seem to turn on that it is the national holiday of quebec lol
"alberta's oppressors" lol
i'm an albertan and i didn't know who this was, at first. turns out he's infamous because he said that the restaurant "earls" supports terrorists because they sourced beef from a supplier that also offers halal products.
he's also know for being from ontario and then telling albertans they need to vote conservative or leave the province. i voted andp that year.
"albertans"
more of a weirdo who wants to run as a city councilor in calgary.
have you considered that on est au quebec icitte
holy shit les boys, on oppresse l’alberta!? c’est bein sick
[deleted]
alberta oppresses itself and blames others for their misfortune.
no, it's pretty simple. he does not know that it is the national holiday of quebec. personally, i do not know the date of the national holiday of the other provinces.
you shouldn't put everyone in the same basket. not all albertans think like him.
they know it's st john the baptist i lived in alberta for years and they don't care. it's a rotten post to provoke the ignorant
alberta hates all of eastern canada, but they hate québec the most.
québec has the power and influence they wish they had.
"will oppress who will oppress the last"
or something like that.
lol, as if the anglo-saxons were victims ...
i've been living in quebec for 6 years now, since when have alberta been oppressed and above all, how? you have to believe that i missed what ...
it never ceases to amuse me how the roc are jealous that there are '' 'canadians' '' proud of their heritage
tse, not even able to realize that it was st-jean. i find it hard to see the celebration of st. john's day with the flag of canada.
craig is our new special friend ❤️
anglo quebecois here, québec > canada
> alberta's oppressor. 
wear that moniker like a badge of honour
hoes mad. (repeat 100 times)
as a canadian i aplogize for this would be whiny trumpkin and pos
aja that i oppress alberta, apparently.
they mad lol
i'm just happy that it will be two quebec teams in the final
to albertan who hates quebec : i hope you realize one day that the only reason why quebecers vote for the trudeau you hate so much is because the alternative is you guys getting into power. this isn't exclusive to quebeckers.  
so trudeau is all on you. stop being insane and maybe we can agree on decent politicians.
as an albertan: who da fook is this guy?
c'mon alberta, give us a chance to beat the team that snatched the cup from the flames. 
let's see alberta! give us the chance to beat the team that stole the cup from you last time.
was on st.catherines in 1993 and on the red mile in 2004. if there's one thing that should unite us, it's hockey.
do you think there's a real human hiding under that big cayoutchou mask?
this is exactly how alberta thinks.
this is way to real.
you see, albertans believe that the equalization pay from the government that attempts to equalize the economies of the provinces by taxing the provinces that make way too much and giving it to provinces that make very little is needed by them more than quebec, and so feel that quebec is stealing from them.
get fucked the oppressed and long live the cup in quebeeeeeec, yeeeeeeeaaaaaah fuck their oil fuck their sands, anarchiiiiiiie
never in my life have i had a strong opinion on a canadian province (apart from ontario, because they are next door). i am not interested in canadian politics except when it concerns us. yet canadians seem to think of us every day.
there is a little light in the apartment, but no tenant
/r/canada ban speedrun any %
it's a redditor template for many of us.
no one cares alberta!
chill dude it was quebec national day 😂
hahahaha
shout out a / r / quebec for the worst memes i know.
ghost spirits
fun fact that may be widely unknown: every taxpayer pays into the equalization program and then the fed distributes the money where it’s needed. canadians who make more, pay more and a lot of times get nothing back. it’s not entirely fair, but it is necessary if we want to continue living beyond our means and push our national and provincial debts even higher than the nearly unfathomable numbers they already are.
fuck quebec
> bof, the dude just doesn't seem to turn on ~~ it's quebec's national holiday lol ~~
ftfy
national holiday or not, there wouldn't be a single canadian flag like it lol
if you think of the elimination of the alberta oil industry as "oppression", i am an oppressor in osti.
oh! alberta uses victimization ... then they'll probably use ostentatious virtue and woke talk to try to justify their self-harm.
they look like us, eh?
unfortunately, each side often only pays attention to the worst of the "other side".
this guy is being presented as an example of albertans.
we often have our idiots also presented in alberta or roc as "examples" of quebecers.
this trick is getting old. we are not just extremes. we are not either blm or proud boys. most people live between those extremist views, but thats boring so make it seem like everyone is either with or against you. much simpler :p
what a sack of shit. you did good friend
the guy said quebec are alberta’s oppressor.. i mean, what?
this guys is... special.
now hold it 'sti!
my uncle and aunt have their own sugar bush and produce quite a bit of maple syrup. my aunt makes her house blend of maple alcohol with ¾ rum and ¼ maple syrup.
at christmas parties, the tradition being that each person / family who enters by ringing the bell, the occupants must take a shot while shouting "gorgéeeeeeeeee". so, if you want to leave with your tank in the evening, you had better arrive in the last.
i have a friend who served a shot of maple syrup to the french and they called it like a tequila ...
their reaction: it's sweet!
delete before you have the police show up at your home for illegal production. lol
are you mont sainte-anne?
finally, my flair comes in handy 🍁
dry ass !!!
ayigator
money shoot baby!
i made it last year and at the reduction stage i added vodka to my glass
10/10
do québécois actually use a lot of maple syrup?
curious foreigner here.
health! :)
that makes me hungry!
oh! yeah !! to your health 🍁
eille, could you send me to germany please?
diabetus iv
thé most quebec shit man , my family used to tap the trees get drunk and shoot off fire crackers they bought in maine 😂
liquid gold from quebec !!
do you have a pipe or traditional installation? how was the harvest this year after all? it started early with mild weather and it got cold again.
mandatory all circumstances
cheers
there are nôooootres 🎶
yes it is a classic maple syrup to mix either dark rum or whiskey with reduced (just before being syrup). it's so good!
nice !! ah i can't wait to try this :)
there is a traditional music group, homage to the elders who titled one of their album "sip". they had the same kind of tradition at their show, regularly raising the glass and shouting "sip", inviting the crowd to do the same. so, if you wanted to leave their evening other than in a carriage, you had better hide 0.5% somewhere in your cooler. we have fun like we do in the region.
> my aunt makes her house blend of maple alcohol with ¾ rum and ¼ maple syrup.
that sounds delicious...
does she make her own rum?
a cane of syrup had been brought to a french friend whom we were visiting on a trip. he literally refused to take it, showing us two more canes he still had.
- ah! don't you like maple syrup ?!
- but yes, but yes, on the contrary i like it. only it's very sweet, after a few sips, it's fine .... suddenly we don't take several glasses.
the problem ?
sometimes when i have the taste of sweet but not to eat a dessert i slice myself one or two gulps of syrup. delicious.
don't worry, it will be all in my belly before they arrive;)
i don't know anything, is it illegal to make syrup
at home for personal consumption?
no, it's a glass of maple syrup.
listen, we torch ourselves as best we can in the forest!
it's to try for the next season! someone else offered to have whiskey there too. yum yum!
simply put, yep. big yep. the biggest yep. c’est ben bon du sirop!
yes! i often replace white sugar in recipes by maple syrup to get extra flavor. put it on pancakes, crepes, waffles, french toast, ice cream. i add it to hot chocolate instead of sugar, or in milk for an easy cold treat. i make maple whipped cream, maple icecream, maple cake, maple yogurt. i don't really like honey and maple syrup goes well with everything honey goes well with so i replace all honey by maple syrup. maple and garlic go especially well together for savory dishes! maple garlic chicken, salmon, ham and porc. maple syrup to caramelize carrots. i dip my breakfast sausages in maple syrup.
i have a sweet tooth in general, but maple syrup is definitely the best tasting sugar!
yes, and not just in desserts. it goes great with with pork (ham, bacon, etc.), with salmon, with mustard (for a sauce), with vegetables (carrots, brussel sprouts, etc.), in salad dressings, in cocktails, etc.
maple syrup is the best sugar replacement out there! and the vast majority of it is produce here i'm our little province!!!
if you're serious, there is a site where you can buy classic maple syrup canes. i believe they deliver all over europe.
he shoots maple syrup like the others
share with us it's gin + reduced! if the discount was available year round, i think i would be diabetic.
is it mont st-anne that we see on the other side of the river?
not yet.
serious? hahaha it is so adorable bin.
> only it's very sweet
... they say after their fifth nutella jar of the week.
ok, they don't drink it but hey, it's funny anyway. in fact, your problem is that you brought syrup but no pancake!
me with ! two three tablespoons next to the fridge or direct to the small jug! what do you want, i have syrup running through my veins.
> eat a dessert i slam one or two glous de siro
you can try
[  
[  
[
wow thanks a lot for the link! they deliver for free in germany when you buy for 99 € but it is clear that i will order more than 10 rods of the shot!
you are saving my life!
the maple syrup does not raise the glicemia like the world thinks
these one of the only sugars diabetics can eat in a spoonful
*username checks out* obligatoire.
ok, at least for the cases in these articles, it looks like we're talking about a mid-volume producer. in the best case, i can produce 3-4 rods per year in my yard ... what i understand is that the sale under certain conditions is illegal ... op with his shooter and months with my 3 rods probably have 0 risk ...
then, the bully goes wrong, defends himself, and gets suspended
right in the feels..
it brings back good memories ... ^ (/ s)
[deleted]
a little lesson in life: the picker comes from a wealthy family. that's why the school flops if you answer.
story of my daughter who gets bitten every week by the same ti-criss, and the daycare that lets it happen ...
i'm not a teacher and it's been 13 years since i left high school, but my impression is that there is a kind of laissez-faire attitude with the teachers where they watch and do nothing because ultimately every gesture individual is quite harmless and they say to themselves "ah it's just children and it doesn't tempt me to manage that" but when you are the target of these 25 small harmless gestures every day it adds up and it becomes heavy , worse when you blow your mark and punche someone, suddenly the punch is kind of the drop too much and that is not done. but the teacher and the supervisors had no problem watching you put gum in your hair, pitch food, steal, steal your stock and push in the lockers for 2 months. i understand so much how it is quirky for children who are bully.
i'm ready to better that there is also a part of the supervisors who are afraid to say something to the "cool guys" when they bullshit people because they are afraid of the repercussions and they become the "uncool supervisor. "worse they lose all their authority.
as the parents of two young children, this is one of my serious concerns for the future ... that and the ease of designating a kid as adhd to force-feed him medoc and have peace in class
story of my life, unfortunately.
got bullied for years, in the same school, by the same people. everyone knew it. in secondary 4 when i got tired at the start of the year, i screwed up a pretty good guy. i was suspended, and the principal made a point of saying that i had a behavioral disorder. my mother congratulated me after having yelled at the director.
i already had a detention ... for having fallen on a girl, after being pushed by a bully in line.
him, he had nothing even though the girl, me, and the girl in front of the bully, all said what happened.
awesome.
> nsuite, the intimidated farts a notch worse defends himself, and is suspended
"because violence is bad".
i love your sentence so much it is sad from the way i have interpreted it twice.
suspended by school or ...
suspended = bully who hangs him from a square.
+ possibly
suspended = by a rope in sadness ... 😔
disagree, the little criss in secondary and primary for me all came from dysfunctional families who lived in 3 1/2 with 3 brothers and sisters
true story
wow, my son once came home from daycare with his best friend's tooth mark. shit happens, we talked about it, it never happened again. in fact our message to the educator was more than if our child did that we would like to know it and act accordingly.
like the impression that a child who bites frequently has parents who are seriously lacking in discipline.
high school teacher here. i would tell you that it has changed considerably over the past 13 years. now we are obliged by law to intervene in cases of bullying. there is an intervention protocol and all the hoopla.
on the other hand, to act, a student must denounce the situation. and i would tell you that having the label of "snitch" is not bad what's worse in high school. so usually when you find out about the situation, the damage has already been done.
now that this is recognized, i believe the teachers are doing their best. it's quite difficult to intervene, personally i deal with ~ 400 students per week. so when we see a situation of possible bullying we manage as best we can in our classroom. sustainable actions must be taken by management ... but at this point ... it takes you in the right direction otherwise, good luck to the bullied.
> i'm ready to better that there is also a part of the supervisors who are afraid to say something to the "cool guys" when they bullshit people because they are afraid of the repercussions and they become the "supervisor not cool "and they lose all their authority.
yep.
there must be teachers who say to themselves, "if you have the 'respect' for the bully, you won't have a problem with authority in your class." if the teacher turns his back on the bully, he risks getting pissed off quite a bit for the rest of the year. so he buys peace with the sanity of the jerk. "better him than me"
i have a teacher who has already defended a student who was being bullied .. she spent the rest of the year on the verge of a nervous breakdown because "the little bitch" were doing it on purpose afterwards to piss off the teacher and even insult her.
(the kind who will say "kin, stupid" while handing in his homework, or gesticulate by imitating the teacher to make others laugh, or just start class debates on irrelevant subjects and then go and complain to the principal that she "learns nothing that the teacher does not know how to manage his time" ..)
> but the teacher and the supervisors had no problem watching you put gum in your hair, pitch food, feed, steal your stock and push in the lockers for 2 months
i am a teacher and i can tell you that there are some bad seeds, the majority of teachers denounce. we meet regularly by level to talk about it.
your mother is cool!
of course, the director reacted the same way, he was not there to ensure your well-being and respect for your right to have an education without breaking your mental health for the rest of your life, him, he is there to make sure the school is functioning. as long as the lessons are given, that the students seem to learn a little, that the extracurricular projects that look good in the newspaper are going smoothly and that the school board looks happy, there is no problem. , it doesn't matter that ti-cul in secondary 4 gets stamped in the wall once in a while. either way, even if the school invested time and effort in helping the student, there wouldn't be a noticeable difference in the general functioning of the school, so is it really worth it? that?
but that ti-cul in secondary 4 gets angry and calisse a mornifle to the student who disgusts him, that, that disturbs. that, the principal must be personally involved in the situation, that means that he will have calls from parents who never call usually, that he will have to do follow-ups, perhaps even the commission. school will ask questions ...
no, really, the student who has decided to defend himself must be punished. hasn't he noticed that the school works much better when he takes the floats without flinching? in any case, the director, he does less work at that time ...
i was in the same problem in elementary school ... returned to secondary one of the service cellars trying to squeal one at me during a break, he was handled by a 6ᵉ guy who told him that 'he was not allowed to touch me ....
i was confused until the evening when my big brother told me he paid his friend who doubled his 6ᵉ to defend me .... hehe
this guy is not the brightest, yé not even dangerous, but at 6'4 "and wide as a fridge, those who do not know him say" yes sir "
my mom made me my favorite meal at night and took her to the water slide the next day when i was hanging out.
often the principals and the school authorities (and often the former bullys too) will try to intellectualize the bullying by explaining that, in the end, it is a necessary passage for someone badly integrated to be made "punish "by intimidation so that he understands afterwards how to integrate a group and live in society. so they see the victims as the real problems. this is why the idea that an intimidated teenager takes revenge is revolting for them: instead of integrating by saying yes to his attackers, the victim revolts and rejects their vision of society (that of the directors) .
it will be noted that the vision of directors who think like that is very close to social darwinism.
they had us in the 1st half, not gonna lie
it's such a caricature that it's believable
"it's never a solution"
dang is dark as an interpretation
my daughter's babysitter once gave me a warning because my daughter bit her boyfriend (family daycare). my daughter had never bitten anyone before. when i arrive to give him his bath in the evening, big crissing bite marks on my chest. very red, bright and fresh. the babysitter hadn't bragged about it that her son had tripled my daughter. we got her out of there at the most.
2 questions: (actually 3)
1. is it a federal or provincial law?
2. if adults see something can they do it on their own?
3. let's say a school decides to disobey the law, how far do the consequences go?
> there must be teachers who say to themselves "if you have" respect "for the bully, you will have no problem with authority in your class." if the teacher turns his back on the bully, he risks getting pissed off quite a bit for the rest of the year.
fortunately, the bullys don't then go to héc or ésg (or, even worse, political science), eh ...
they tend to focus on police techniques.
yes, i am aware of it! 20 years later, it still is!
i hate your comment, but unfortunately that's exactly how it goes.
my cousin did a bit of the same thing, by deeming a friend of his to go "talk" to those who didn't let me go in secondary two or three, reminds me more. sometimes it just takes a sign that we're not alone to hold on.
your mother is a good mother
my parents didn't even believe me when i arrived in the evening! i was in 5th grade, by the way.
a little too hin 👎
she was just defending herself, poor child. amazing the babysitter didn't mention that
1. provincial, it bears the name of law no. 56: an act to combat bullying and violence in schools. you can googling it if you want.
2. yes, they are obligated to do so.
3. the school must present its protocol to the board. the management must also make an agreement with the local police service. afterwards, if ever the management prefers not to apply it, i have no idea of the consequence if the victim succeeds in proving that there was negligence on the part of the management. i imagine that it is a gradation of note in the file until dismissal. but frankly i am speaking through my hat here.
is it sarcastic?
in my experience, the brilliant bully (or manipulator) goes to hec / politics, and the tata bully (the "brute force" bully) goes to police technique / construction contractor.
the basic context is obviously different, but the general principles remain the same in the management of organizations, human resources departments, ministries, the national hockey league, certain families ...
a friend once told me an urban legend according to which it had already happened that hells angels threaten the deaths of students who intimidated young people with family in the hells.
like the guy comes out of school, there is a guy on a bike who arrives, he points a gun at it, then he says "such student, you let him go"
usually i imagine it worked fast.
i mean, i don't want to diagnose the world because i'm not a psychologist, but i suspect she was a jerk.
ok. but according to you it had concrete effects?
this joke there, i steal it. 😅
i believe so, there is a lot less bullying in schools but anyway now it's on the internet that it's happening.
fuuuuuuuck that looks good
just know ... am i the only one to say "your canteen"? or canteen is a masculine name?
a bus? a bus?
a fan? a fan?
a plane? an airplane?
a canteen? a cafetaria?
fight!
put me in the ass and call me sally the goose, my boyfriend is a solid poutine
please remind me that my life is miserable because i don't have poutine right now.
enjoy your lunch!
it feels good to see a poutine that looks like a poutine.
ohhhh .... the cheese ball at 7 o'clock!
magnificent
i am hungry
long live the free poutine!
where is it?
your canteen?
* props * to fromaaaaaage!
canteen at the station in rimouski. you will give me news.
nice poutine that my tchum
this is poutine!
"la p'tites bouffe" by st-alphonde de rodriguez for lyfee
at micheline's someone? or ben poucet / fritobec
is it me or the poutine at ashton's not that good ?!
i am a doctor who shares the happiness of this image. i'm happy when the village canteen opens in may and ... yes, i'm going to get some poutine there. i have to hide to eat it because my environment is critical of the nutritional value of this treat. i think about it too, but at 70 i can afford to run this risk for my arteries. what do you think ?
same question. i know for a fact that the best poutines are in regional canteens. but let's say i'm in montreal. is there a way to find a similar quality without (in my case) having to rent a car?
i am over the ice floe and poutineville.
can we have a r / poutinereviews
i ate finger foods all day. brie, crackers, guacamole, couscous salad, falafel, vegetables and dips ... i would love this poutine anyway.
[deleted]
cantine w warwick
golden like the sun !!!
it looks good in your eyes
where is it ?
she looks good !!!
awh cursed ....
* open doordash to order yourself a big crunch of good poutine *
yum, that looks fucking good
you eat your poutine in your canteen!
* signs of yogi the bear enters the chat *
anyway she looks yum!
your canteen?
lucky, it's been a long time since i ate real quebec poutine
dc potatoes !!!!
that's a good poutine batince.
maybe i should call her...
not ultra-healthy, but ultra appetizing.
what's this ?
what place is this canteen there?
omg a real poutine
i salivated all over my keyboard
menoum menoum! she is beautiful!
team a canteen
i've never heard anyone call it a canteen before this post, i thought op just mistranslated it.
my answers from eastern franco-ontarian are:
a cafetaria
a bus
a fan = i am a fan of this artist
a fan = i need the sound of a fan to fall asleep at night
a plane
who calls a canteen a canteen other than op? rather, that is the question.
> just know ... am i the only one to say "your canteen"? or canteen is a masculine name?
op is probably anglo, you can also see him on the keyboard without accents. but a good job of integration on his part!
in a canteen you can eat poutin.
i thought it was illegal to sell energy drinks to people under 16.
i drink a monster every now and then, maybe monthly or bi-monthly.
i love the taste of the monster for a pretty crazy reason that shows the power of marketing: in 2005, i was at the vans warped tour de quebec, which was held in the parking lot of the colisée pepsi. it was summer, it was hot, we didn't really want to pay to buy a drink. but monster had kiosks and gave away cold cans for free. my brain unfortunately associated the happiness of the event with the "savior" effect of the product, which makes me adore the monster.
fortunately, i am not addicted and i limit myself to one every now and then for the fun of it. if i didn't have the coffee though, i might be addicted to the monster ...
i'm glad i'm not calling myself kevin. thanks moman.
people often criticize energy drinks for their caffeine content, but sugar is the problem. caffeine these same people probably consume twice or even tripple per day while drinking coffee.
vending machines will take your energy drink business hassle free
i missed a part of it
is that when we decided that kevin represented the douchebag?
not that i'm complaining, i don't know any so i must be no worse in my selection of friends and acquaintances
from
there was no such thing as nanargie before i was 16
big day
so convenience stores are above the public's opinion? in addition, the person is honest in his comment by mentioning the real reason, which is that she is under 16 and could not buy her energy drinks. everyone can say what they think without needing a rescue plan from our beautiful convenience stores! lollll frankly! in customer reviews like google review, you take what is relevant to you and leave the rest to those who care.
i tried to like the last comment .. less from kevin hahahaha
be kevin
i'm not even 16 (i'll be 15 soon) and i go to dollarama every week for rockstars ... $ 2 the cacanne my boy
it tastes so chemical, it's disgusting in addition to being junk. never understood the value of these drinks. americanism at its peak.
majority of deps are angry
it is
edith: just at bed late
it's also illegal to hang out if you're under 18, but it's obvious that everyone is crying out.
from experience, i bought rockstar in all deps in my neighborhood at 12 years old. but the deps in my neighborhood have always been a sketch.
there are only the criminals who provide energy drink to the future of our country (energy drink ... it is 16 years and more ... more 2 years if alcohol added)
i'm here with you! i also drink it very, very rarely, like one every 2-3 months.
from my side, the classic green monster tastes assassin's creed ii. the first cans i bought in high school came from a guy who bought them on special at provigo at noon, at $ 1.25 each, and then sold them to the school for $ 1.50. i would arrive home in the evening, have supper, go downstairs to my bedroom, open the xbox 360 and play assassin's creed while opening a green monster can.
these memories are clear and vivid, it's still sick haha. every time the first sip is ultra nostalgic, i love the feeling it brings back!
if there was liquor that tasted like red bull or monster, i would drink it regularly. the effect does not really affect me on the other hand, the crash is too brutal for me. there's never a good time to drink one, before noon i'm going to have a crash in pm, in the evening i'll have a hard time falling asleep.
happy cake day, not kevin
for real i do not understand the world, those who militate the most against racism and sexism are the first to shit on people called karen and kevin ... like .. hello?
imagine ... your name is kevin and you have a monster logo tattoo
it depends on the kind! worse, caffeine is fine, but guarana in industrial quantities is also caffeine but with another name. it's like food that will put sugar, brown sugar, corn syrup and fructose so that it is further down the list of ingredients and people think it's healthy when in fact t 'as 38g of carbohydrates per 50g serving ...
personally, i stopped taking it because it gave me pain in the joints. i have never felt this kind of pain while abusing coffee or liquor ...
personally i drank coffee every morning from like 14 years old. my parents (who are always pro health and good habits) did not care that i drink it. i don't want to reduce this to an anecdote but i wouldn't say it caused any problems. i agree with your point, sugar is addicting and harmful to dogs
plus the young con with a civic, a monster and a pinch soft than the douchebag.
it would take us a generic name of douchebag for example
it is universal, in france as in quebec.
karen / kevin
> americanism at its peak.
a bit easy as a prejudice.
i have personally seen quite a bit more of these products (selection and shelf space) in eastern europe and the balkans than in the united states.
it is true that it is bad, but it is not americanism.
> energy drinks were first marketed in scotland in 1901 under the name "* iron brew *". but they only had real success in the early 1960s in japan and south korea.
[
and red bull is an austrian company.
you should see what they sell in the countries of eastern europe. the monster and redbull are like a little relaxing tea if you compare them.
steady udder water equals all day long 🤙
some would say that coca-cola is the same.
it's really expensive too
you go to a rave, or end of semester at uni (or full class if you're in medicine).
you are in secondary 4 and are you going to see friends? more to be cool than anything else.
i tasted redbull just once. i got some on my fingers after opening a bottle for a friend and licking them. it tasted like addiction. never again.
edith: host of sub of bouette
i think the follow-up for energy drink versus alcohol is two worlds.
the idea has been proposed a few times but it has never been done.
couche tard has an internal policy of prohibiting the sale of at least 16 years of age, but that is their decision.
hello edith
it's wrong.
i work in a late bed and have never put anyone out for an energy drink.
shocked by quebec laws xd this is the first time i see this, do not know other regions / countries where it is 18 years old
hi grandma!
your two stories are fascinating. i wonder if their best consumers are nostalgic millennials!
> the first cans i bought in high school came from a guy who bought them on special at provigo at noon, at $ 1.25 each, and then sold them to the school for $ 1.50.
seems to me that his profit margin was small to give himself this trouble there!
the trick is to start drinking when you wake up and continue during the day but to know * timer * its * down * with the lying down.
/s
this!
in europe there are red bull liquors, but it tastes like coke :(
thank you!
yes it is a bit disgusting. it reminds me of the attitude of english canadian "nice people" towards quebecers.
wow go to provigo twice a month. are you trying to contaminate quebec as a whole? / s
googles maps recaps have really made me laugh for a year now. like, were you sure you wanted to send this to your users? x)
i hope you took the opportunity to have a little soft drink and a bottle of wine at the same time!
big month! treat yourself for april, you could go to a gas station, or better, to a pharmacy !!!
saq, provigo, and favorite chocolates ... it's such a quebec shopping center that lol
every monday my phone tells me how long it will take me to get to my house next door ... in fact it's because i put my oil on the road ... misery!
google sends me a "recap" of my monthly trips and i feel it is judging me.
between the sqdc, the dep, the grocery store and at our place ... * you have traveled 7.2 km this month! *
at first, i found it weird to be told that i did 60 km less than usual, now, i find it just funny to see how sweet fuck all i do.
i think i recognize sherbrooke 👀
i see you like to party just like me...
a busy life
oh, but it's the provigo of the swaguenay!
if this is the provigo that i think, probably is
didn't last year have big cases of covid in that store?
2 times in 10 days! it's even worse!
according to google, the businesses that i frequent most often are, in ascending order: reno depot, costco, provigo and ... the saq
la pandemie in a nutshell
> i hope you took the opportunity to take a little soft
it's on google maps, not grindr.
i was telling myself the same thing!
i tinkered twice in a year 😳
> big month! spoil yourself for april,
you're crazy man, it's the danger zone month in april
paspire lineup. you don't need anything else!
it strangely resembles a description of boucherville. these three stores are in the same corner!
leave your phone inside!
is someone going to tell him that the oil changes are once a week?
the steps too! when i went to the office downtown, i took 5-6000 steps a day: from my car to the bus to the park-and-ride lot, from the terminal to the office, walk around the office, go to dinner, have a coffee, come back .
the? i type the 1500 when i go grocery shopping, otherwise it's 4-500.
it is true that the provigo-saq-choco fav combo makes a lot of king / jacques-cartier
and not!
honestly, we should get away from renovation, bulk buying, cooking and cocktail making clubs. everyone's new interests. add the puzzles, the bakery and start an instrument and i think we all end up in there
i didn't tell you to take it out, but to go to the gas station. you can do whatever you want there, like the privileged activity in joliette, ie snort gas or wait in line to pay your pabst!
look, i haven't cut my hair in 2 years now (man), i was suppose to go last year in march and i just grow back, and grow back, and it's growing, and now i like it
you just have to make everyone and wear two masks under your calvinsse nose !!!
reno depot when the going gets tough
the government is tracking you with 5g, be careful
/s
that's why he says every monday and not every day.
there is so little distance between my bed and my desk that i have an average of 72 steps per day.
my record was a 17th step in january, i still don't know how i did it.
saguenay?
do not underestimate the level of entertainment that the car wash can provide!
share the "pleasure" of the 5 old men standing in line who have their 45 scratch cards validated each and use the money to buy more
maybe an sqdc too!
have you seen the price of 2x4 👀
i am shoulder
you shit in your boxers anyway, we know that
entre 2 drags su' talbot
yes!
go on! we spoil ourselves with the three-color program!
it's true. the shades of pink and green when the soap caresses the sheet metal, the firm brushes which vehemently rub the soft walls of my mazda 3 and the pti finish armorall while drying its teeth.
small pleasures, what.
ah yes that i love me too !!!
not crazy maurice! if you've got all that té bin rigger!
well, it's not like 2x4s grow on trees, tse
well no
it's very poetic.
nice, i'm going to do my big social outings this year, we have surely seen each other op
[facebook employees can’t enter the headquarters because their badges don’t work, and those already inside can’t enter various rooms because access is linked through the iot (internet of things) and so goes through the same dns routes that no longer exist:](
oupsy!
i vote for us to bring back msn!
this is the big reset announced by the conspis.
3-4 days no internet, a big blackout, worse the donald who comes back triumphant to be president of the world!
/s
for messenger it's annoying anyway. i realize right now that i will have to update the cell numbers of several of my friends!
i want to believe that you all hate facebook to die, but that remains that for many people, it is their main means of communication with their job and their friends (i'm talking about messenger). it's really annoying.
i would like him to be down for a short week. just to make the world realize how addicted they are
myspace time has come the gang
probably the most productive day in north america in years!
be careful what you wish… imagine all your matantes migrating to reddit because facebook no longer exists…
no. facebook is also whatsapp, which a billion and more people use to communicate.
[zuckerberg loses $7 billion in hours as facebook plunges](
it feels good. honestly i don't know how many times today i had the reflex to go on my phone to go to fb or ig before realizing that it didn't work anymore. it had been a long time since i had such a productive day. unfortunately, it already seems to be coming back.
i wouldn't mind, unfortunately i could have trolled on tivia news and jdm posts.
[deleted]
the proof that an empire holds its own
reaction of 99.9% of people:
* my facebook gods can walk, i have to go and post on my page to say it
* (3 second pause).
* ah fuck, it's true it takes a working facebook to post on its page.
instagram is dead, college girls addicted to boomerang stories (in 2021 hey yes) must be on the verge of depression.
i think it's back?
facebook fuck. we are told to consume local and buy from producers here. the same logic should apply for cloud services.
it doesn't make sense that two people living in montreal are using a service whose data inevitably passes to the states to communicate.
i hope that the failure and the revelations of the former employee of fb ignite many on the need for more decentralized telecommunications.
amazing all new it engineers on social media
still nice
ahhh why am i more able my old high school friends to cry over our dictatorship? 😂😂
for those who are interested:
> our engineering teams have learned that configuration changes on the backbone routers that coordinate network traffic between our data centers caused issues that interrupted this communication. this disruption to network traffic had a cascading effect on the way our data centers communicate, bringing our services to a halt.
i have just been able to receive a message on messenger and send one. it may be coming back
okay, [put this on facebook,] ( i go to bed and when i get up facebook is dead.
a thought for all the influencers who lost income this afternoon.
what happened?
it's back online, unfortunately
:d ….. awesome!
if facebook closes, all the ginettes, roger, fernande, gaston, micheline, etc. will land on twitter and reddit.
careful what you wish for :)
as soon as it crashes, i switch to discord ahahahaha.
twitter then?
please
hatred
facebook go bye bye
it's starting
it's come back!
and facebook is back.
[
he put `localhost` as dns server, it's clear that it doesn't work.
kinda sucks for missing photos and memories though… and some people i’ll probably never find again. mostly the memories. but i have severe memory loss anyway so i guess what’s the point. but… for my mum…. i hope her photos of her other kids are still safe somewhere. oof i’m not prepared for her second heartbreak if that’s the casw
me: "cool a facebook break for a short day it will be good. i will go to other sites" .. all the rest of the internet: "click here for all the details on the facebook failure we tell you all"..
local host dns lol
i don't trust fb 😳
i find it so cringe those who are like facebook bad ahah common, it's just a social media platform. if it's poisonous, you're misusing it.
permanent? msn messenger, mirabilis icq enter the chat…
[deleted]
this is why we pay for a cellular plan .. and that we have a cell number? to call and text .. without facebook 🤷🏻‍♂️ but that many people seem to have forgotten!
marde screenshot of a marde tool. well done.
oh shit! that explains why i can't communicate with messenger today! hahahahah worth it, i will find many other ways to reach my friends and family. the disappearance of karen groups who share anti-tax and anti-science bullshit in general on facebook is well worth it.
i also hope that it will be permanent. the people behind it are heroes.
[deleted]
hey sorry for your mom man. my condolences. good luck for the future. do you have a specific memory of her that you would like to share?
my sympathies, i would like to have something intelligent to say, losing your parents is so hard to live with, i hope you have support, close friends, who can hear your voice
all my sympathies. it is an event which is not easy what you are going through. hope you have people you can talk to and keep company, the best we can in this time of pandemic.
it is true that it sucks rare. even outside the pandemic. it's so cold as a process, eh? when i lost some family members, like my grandfather, that's what i found. seems like death is just an administrative thing. it's so weird.
do you want to have a big ceremony to celebrate the life of a loved one and tell everyone how awesome they were, and ultimately it's just paperwork and we squeal you in a hole in the ground worse it's finish. is that just life? you split your ass in 4 all your life at school for good grades, to have a good job to finally get to retirement when you have had the best health, enough energy to finally have a break? worse that's just if you have a good enough pension.
seriously, it changed my perspective on life, my relationship with the people i love and love less and with my job. but, it looks like the rest of society just doesn't get it and just hasn't gotten there. as if all that matters is work, money and worse as if it were a race to get to the end, in the hole.
all my condolences. i lost my grandfather during the pandemic and it was tough to be away from my family for that (they are in france, i have both nationalities). at the same time, maybe it's better that way, they allow funerals for 10-15 people in france and half of my family present has caught the covid transmitted by a cousin.
but today, i had to have my dog euthanized, her last vision was her two boys (my brother and i) who bawl in their masks, but especially the vet because covid obliges, we were separated her and us by a kind of plexiglass. it’s not a great injustice, but i didn’t experience it that way.
so it is indeed not ideal for mourning this period. hope you get the chance to celebrate your mom's life the way it should be once all of this is behind us.
i lost my mother in 2012 when i was 19. tldr; she had returned to the hospital with back pain and never came out.
i can imagine the pain you must have, but i cannot imagine the pain you caused by this little contact / time with your mother before and after her death. you even got to say goodbye to him and close the coffin before the burial.
i wish you and i send you all the love in the world that i have bro. if there's anything, never hesitate to call a friend, relative or worst case, drop a reddit post!
my most sincere sympathies for you and your family
my condolences, i fully understand your pain. i lost my father on december 15 a little before the reconfinement. a call when he got home, a call a week later to say he was to leave in 2 days. i just had the chance to see him the last two days. not nothing, no funeral. an urn brought by the company that took care of the cremation a week later. papers, more papers, accounts payable. empty his apartment, be unable to donate to organizations, fortunately some nice people have accepted to recover his furniture, give the keys to the owners and it's over.
indeed, grieving is very hard. i think of his son and his ex-wife who could not visit him and his family that i never knew who live in the united states who would never have been able to visit him.
it's part of the life stages, you're going to get through it like i try to do. one step at a time, good luck.
i send you all my condolences and my compassion.
[deleted]
my condolences friend. all these precautions to protect the body but nothing for the mind and the feeling. this pandemic is more harmful to the soul and the spirit than anything else and it is much more serious!
this is a situation where the cure is worse than the disease ...
my sincere condolences.
i fully sympathize with you. my father passed away on december 8th, and we were lucky enough to be able to be by his side until the end, but the grieving process is really special indeed. i couldn't have spent my first christmas without him surrounded by my family, and despite the funeral home being paid and everything, well the funeral still hasn't happened either.
the process is so fucked up that there are mornings i wonder if he's really gone. it really is calisse de marde.
my sincere condolences, it's really not easy :(
my sympathies. i don't know what it's worth to receive sympathies from strangers on the internet, but we do what we can and it's sincere.
my cousin died during the pandemic. it's unclear what - he was found in his bed presumably a few days after his death when his friends had heard nothing from him. mid-thirties, mild asthmatic but otherwise healthy. and since it was in the middle of the first peak of cases, impossible to have a coroner to investigate or even a blood test, so we have no idea of the circumstances of his death. surreal situation.
there will be a lot of people who will need to mourn postponed after all this. still allow yourself to absorb the blow in your own way, as best you can.
all my condolences.
this is my biggest fear in this pandemic. my grandparents live in another country. if they die we will not be able to move: / no way to say goodbye to them, to be with the family, etc.
it makes me so sad to read this, it doesn't look good. i really can't imagine myself in this situation and wish you find a way to grieve it anyway.
my condolences, i'm just a stranger on reddit but i'm thinking of you tonight❤️
only 5 minutes, i think i would have smashed the hospital.
my sympathies my boyfriend, i can not imagine how hard it must be for you.
we are with you if ever
my condolences! it should not be easy indeed. but i know people who gave small funerals of 10 people max i think. it is not possible?
my sympathies. i lost my grandparents in less than a year. the first at the worst of the pandemic last april. we weren't able to have a funeral before the fall, couldn't make a last visit. i wish that on no one.
i'm sorry you couldn't see your mom in the hospital any longer. i think the rules are different from one establishment to another.
good luck for the future.
my condolences. my grandfather died 3 weeks ago, i understand you it's crap. you just want to bring everyone together in these moments but it's not possible.
my condolences. i lost my grandfather suddenly at the end of october, i'm in the region so we were still able to have semi-normal funerals, but it's still weird.
if you need to talk, you can send me a message, that will make me happy!
my best friend's mother died two days ago. i would like to give him a hug and tell him that i will always be there for him and that's going to be okay, but no.
my condolences :( i send you lots of positive waves. i lost my mother at the age of 25 and i understand your pain. good luck.
we don't know each other, but i send you full of sweetness and energy. glad to know you are well surrounded.
i'm sending you positive waves, it's far from easy, it's completely inhuman. i am happy to see that you have people who are there to accompany you. stay strong my man. i read your folds in this post and be careful not to exhaust yourself, think of you. don't collapse in two months after running nonstop for 2-3 months.
courage :)
my grandfather passed away this summer and yes it sucks in tabarnak.
at least the 4 girls had been allowed to watch him, one at a time. one was there when he stopped breathing in his sleep.
i was allowed to spend 5 minutes with the body.
we managed to have a mini exhibition and a mini funeral. (10 people). thank you for being in the depths of abitibi.
my grandfather had an extremely busy life and in normal times we would have expected as many people as we would have expected the pope's funeral.
it's even worse for you, my condolences
my grandmother and her last surviving sister (they were 14 children in all) both died in late 2019, early 2020, just before the pandemic. i'm so glad i didn't experience this during the pandemic! over the past year, i have told myself a few times that it must be painful to
1.dying during the pandemic: not being able to really say goodbye to loved ones, die alone or surrounded by a few strangers (attendants, nurses, etc.)
2. grieve during the pandemic: for all the reasons you mentioned and more.
i read in other comments that you seem well enough surrounded to live it properly despite everything, that reassures me. i still have a little thought for all those who live particular events which become much more painful / complex because of the pandemic!
my sympathies, i feel you so much.
my mother lost her brother in the fall and after the funeral (maximum 20 people), everyone just had to continue on their own, to continue to be isolated from each other and to console each other from a distance. then quietly having to forget; turn the page without really having had the time to reread the previous chapters in the presence of the others. time only stretches out, the page never really turns.
it is as if the pandemic gave ample time to mourn the dead without being able to heal by the comfort of the living. a piece is missing to get through. there is something very * unreal * frustrating about this. i hope you get through it, you seem to be well surrounded. courage!
it's not human, it's just not human, when i read things of the same kind that afterwards we see that cult places can accommodate 100 people, that stores, cinemas, etc. open ... i am enraged for you. my deepest condolences.
i confirm, losing a loved one to a pandemic is shit. next week will be a year since my dad passed away and his dad (my grandfather) passed early this year. we are still waiting for the funeral (questions of being able to see as many people as possible in complete safety) but the support was present even from a distance.
my sympathies to you. live your grief as you feel it and take all the support you can, it really helps. i'm sending you good energy to get you through.
i lost 2 of my grandparents in 2020.
i sympathize. the pandemic is taking all the space.
but tell yourself that everyone in your family who would normally attend the funeral has the same feeling.
my advice: arrange a meeting with your family when the restrictions are lifted. i was able to do it last fall in the 3 weeks we were able to see each other in my region and it was good for everyone.
i feel you, i lost my father last july and it was pretty much the same routine :(
no family reunion nothing, luckily i am close to my brothers and sister and we were able to spend time at his bedside but the majority of my father's brothers and sisters could not even see him before his death.
no ceremony, nothing exposure, just a small article in the local obituary and burial.
fortunately i am in a rural environment and i was able to meet with brothers and sisters to disperse the ashes.
he would have been 62 this year.
first of all, thank you for sharing what you are going through, even if it is very difficult. not being able to see each other, give each other heartwarming hugs, and come together to honor those who have left in the last few months will certainly have a long-term impact on many people in the years to come. thank you for talking about your mother, who seemed to be such a generous and unifying person.
i am happy to know that you are well surrounded.
looks like the rules vary wildly for hospital visits. my mother-in-law is in palliative care at the royal victoria / muhc at the moment and she is allowed 4-5 visitors per day. since they determined that her death is imminent, her 5 children are allowed to be with her at the same time almost at all times (except at night pck there is only one place to sleep).
i can't even imagine how devastated my husband would be if i couldn't go see her so i empathize with what you are going through all the more.
[deleted]
honestly, i can't imagine myself. i lost an uncle in november and it doesn't look like it happened, precisely ... i can't even imagine someone closer.
worth what it's worth coming from a stranger to the zinternets, but i offer you my deepest condolences.
good luck.
i wish you all my sympathies
my sympathies
i'd rather not even imagine myself ... sorry dude.
:'(  
i rescend your distress, i wish you the best and all my condolences.
all my sympathies, it pained me to read this. if you ever feel like chatting or whatever, don't be shy!
all my condolences. 😞
relatives have died since last march. fortunately, in the summer, we were able to meet at the cemetery and at a relative's house afterwards. this is already a lot. you have my sympathies.
i'm sorry. my condolences.
♥️
my condolences. it's silly to say but your confession makes me realize that my situation is not that hard after all .. it really must not have been easy for you the last few weeks but you did well to share it on reddit. we feel a lot of love and support here. it will be good for your future i wish you ✌️🤟
my sincere condolences.
i feel a lot of your loneliness with your words, if you want to talk, come and write to me.
it's inhuman to mourn like this, stay strong!
my condolences.
i am living my own story of mourning during a pandemic. a member of my family is dying in another city. sudden illness. and i can't visit. i would never see her again. she will never meet my baby. it breaks your heart. as if she is so close but so far away during her last days. and then, as you say, we won't have service .... it's inhuman.
my sympathies. hope you can put yourself in a "bubble" with someone to help you get through this difficult time.
i'm sorry and i offer you my condolences. good luck. you're not alone.
i am really sorry. all my condolences.
tabarnak ... i'm sorry, that must be really boring. my condolences
i saw a guy walking around with a big cardboard star of david on his sweater. he saw me laughing in my chariot when he saw him and looked down, looking embarrassed.
good, it looked thick in tabarnak.
the fact that there is something worse elsewhere does not mean that we should accept without question everything that is happening here.
if a friend tells you that her boyfriend has the annoying tendency to drink and raise his voice from time to time, we tell her not "don't complain, my neighbor gets beaten up by her husband every night, then you have no what to complain about ”.
there is always worse.
no, but now the anti-vax wear the star of david. having a free vaccine and wearing a mask during a global pandemic is exactly the same as the holocaust and extermination is not the concentration camps of the third reich.
okay, the extermination is missing.
... and the camps.
... and the slaughter of thousands of innocent people.
... and the gestapo.
... and the government of the nazi far-right.
... and the world war declared by the third reich.
otherwise, it's totally the same!
itt: people who don't get the joke.
there are a lot of people trying on the hat here.
he doesn't do you, move on.
it's a caricature that laughs at people crying out for dictatorship.
honestly people who still cry because of the pi mask which melts not vaccinated its just big baby lala, come back cursed there are things worse than his in life
beautiful fallacy here
i wouldn't speak of a dictatorship because of the passport, it's just really restrictive and bureaucratic for not much.
in quebec too, are there people who wear stars?
it is the total and final destruction of our culture !!!!!!! 1111111
papers please.
well, okay.
ham win criss here lol
and this picture applies to everything canadians complain about on daily basis.
[deleted]
look, i agree with the personal vaccination passport.
but your neighbor's broken leg doesn't stop your sprained little finger from hurting and needing to be treated.
you can care about more than one problem at a time, you know.
people here are dumb if they don't understand the caricature.
is it the same image on both sides or what? i do not understand? ok! it's a game to find the differences !!!
oh boy, this one is gonna be tough. i don't see a lot of them.
/s
people have so much nothing to do in the west. this is why there is so much nonsense and false debate. when you get persecuted all day long you don't have time for it
big cash to do with that, i can't wait
ah nice, it's less worse than in afganhistan which is correct, obviously. thank you for calling us to order. / s
it's a step closer to more control even if it's 50 move before something is terrible
"it's not that bad" the favorite phrase of the mojde which turns rights into privileges
the "karen" or "snowflakes" will always be present over the generations.
start by focusing on what is really going on here before attempting to reduce everything to a simple picture. if you can objectively observe the real situation around you, you will see that it is different from the one that has been played to us over and over for 1 year. scanning codes is for merchandise and not for human beings. it is not a question here of traveling to another country but of going to a restaurant for example. it would be very naive to give this power to the authorities thinking that it will be temporary and that it will not go further. there will always be more variants and doses required for said pass to remain valid.
serious gang? a rotten carricature that smells so like the vomit of “whattaboutism” that i had a hard time looking at it for too long, with so many posivotes? it's not because the mad lady drawn on the right is stupid that the comparison is relevant. because these are two subjects which bear no relation to each other and which both deserve discussion, separately.
(insert) corporate wants you to find the difference meme.
the road to bondage
coincidence rule that taliban stories come out at the same time hen ??????????
"i get beaten up but it's not that bad ... there are some who get killed!"
the most stupid sophisticate argument. one misfortune does not invalidate another, it is not a contest.
and what is the problem? because in kabul there are public executions and this is not the case in quebec, we must be silent and not express our opinion? if you want a society where everyone follows the government blindly, go to kabul, there are a few houses that have become available and the cost of living is not high ...
compare people who have lived for 20 years in the military grip of the united states and who are taking back what is rightfully theirs to what used to be a democracy where people were free and now have someone wielding the state of emergency and who refuses open debate or the slightest questioning of his work ... that makes a lot of sense .... (ps, and yes, all those who collaborated directly or indirectly with the americans who were bombing literally civilians who have drawn oil are in the sights of the taliban 😅)
since the vaccine is not obligatory, i am not vaccinated, (if it was, i would be vaccinated with joy, but it is not).
however, i share your opinion regarding the passport because of the situation in france, which i believe will be the same for us: if you have the passport, you go straight in, otherwise you go to a room next to do a quick test and 5 min after you come back).
this kind of measure is not put forward for the moment by the government in order to scare and increase the rate of vaccinations.
at the last news we are in quebec
like when they wanted to pass sharia law in ontario, it's not that bad to have 2 types of justice.
how do you think it started, "elsewhere", let's say? like the first step was what, let's say?
not badly insulting for the jews to compare what we are experiencing today with the holaucoste. i say it like that
it is so, so insultant and such a lack of respect for the jews who suffered, the world who do that! it gives me a nice hug !!!
this [gif] ( represents what i think of them.
this is not what it is about. here it is the hyperbole of "dictatorship" (no) and the minimization of the holocaust that is rightly ridiculed.
we must also not go into the ridiculous. to say that legault is a dictator and a drag is a lack of respect for those who are really going through this.
clearly. i think the image is more there to show that exaggeration in the description of a situation can lead to discredit the arguments.
children in africa would love to have your brussels sprouts.
ok, fak according to you, the current measures compare to nazism? because that's what the picture shows.
there's a way to disagree with the measurements without yelling dictatures. if we were in a dictature, the demo world would have been run over by a tank. i double-checked several journalistic sources to be certain, and that is not what happened.
indeed it is a beautiful fallacy this caricature: - /
there are also those who shit about mentioning the holocaust do not say that we are there, but that we are creating the same kind of climate that led to this kind of thing. highly anxious people, highly popular politicians who offer solutions, etc. recently there was even a thread where some said they didn't give a damn about what can happen to those who don't trust the vaccine and decide not to take it if they get covid and were among the few to have serious consequences.
let's say that we hit the 92% vaccination in 3 months, that the cases are still rising, that the hospitals are overflowing because they are still overflowing. i would see many applauding them if the vaccination passport were extended even to essential services. no one expects the unvaccinated literally to be put in concentration camps. if "we were there" as the other would say, then it would make more sense to forcibly vaccinate them. we could even sell it as "to save christmas".
you are on r / quebec here. it's not fast fast.
indeed, but all the speeches against the vaccine passport compare it to a dictatorship, hence the comparison made inside this cartoon
that's the problem, there are always worse.
what can i do for the freedom of others? it's mine that i'm going to defend because it's her i know🤔
there are people who see adversity, but you see opportunity. i like this.
[deleted]
lol. i am not the only twisted one who went to see the transport quèbec site !! hahahaha 😂
"in other news, the newly announced renovations for the turcot interchange are scheduled to begin on february 9th"
i have just returned from a walk with my dog in downtown st jerome and saw 25 cars in 40 minutes
in quebec, you just have the sq tanks, the rtc buses and 5-6 peasants who grab tickets.
in quebec, i heard the distant siren of a fire truck for a good 10 \ ~ 15 minutes. it was hardly believable how quiet it was. it really made me want to go out, haha.
wait until i go get my free reddit trophy to give it to you
good point
question if someone is returning from out of province will they get a fine if on the road after 8?
"no never"...
and wasting perfect traffic jams? go take a walk in the flowers with your good ideas.
well no, never in your life are you going to find a construction unionist who will do this to you for less than $ 50 an hour a night.
it'll be great for snow removal if there's a storm.
i'm staying in abitibi, but i think tonight i'm going to listen to radio-circulation 730 just to hear the odd situation it is.
"this image is not available at this time."
ah, yeah. this camera too 'would have to be repaired.
if only construction wasn't illegal
esti, a repair squad between 8pm and 5am lets go
it's not serious. if the measure fails, the government will continue to pretend that it is the fault of "ceusses who do not follow the instructions" without any proof and will never admit to having erred or that its measure was unnecessary, and people will take their word for it.
with what money?
have you seen the half a billion hole in the revised montreal budget? you'll check this when it comes out.
hello, service cuts and tax increases, but that only comes into effect after the next election
that was the 2030 agenda after all.
don't you dis
is that you're for a curfew in summer
^^^^ slachèss
they have been talking about repairing the louis-hippolyte-lafontaine tunnel for years and they have not done so because of the social costs that its closure would generate. in addition, it is possible to do work there in winter since the structure is covered. i say go for it!
stune
joke
:(
there is also a webcam couple in quebec in front of the parliament and at place d'youville, it's quite empty
prediction: the curfew would be extended until the summer
look at the fraishier who still has walking privileges
and is it normal or less than usual?
i saw only one in st jean sur richelieu and it was the police
in downtown gatineau it's more the dust kitties that we intend to pass since march 2020
it's downtown, there is a lot of essential service. 25 car is nothing
950 meters
peasants or passers-by?
at home we said it was the siren of the purge
i found it! 🏆
no? we can't fix the streets in winter lol
the law force people not to be outside their own house after 8, exept if its a very serious case, like life or death situation... but you will be fine if you get home before 8
$ 50? on the construction of memory we speak of 35 $ / h for regular time (weekday). at night, on weekends, it must be triple time ... more like 105 $ / h. and that is what the employee has as a salary, not what is charged. in the end, it must cost $ 200 / h to have a road worker at night, on weekends.
not much. in residential areas, no one will know where to put their car.
most people have abandoned their life plans anyway, faq whether the confinement continues or ends, it doesn't matter much. the norm has become to do nothing, so the results do not matter.
on the other hand, it's a good time to take stock of our life and be reborn, but i'm afraid it's for a minority of people.
come to think of it, you make an excellent point. where will the cuts go to recover some of the yawning deficit this year has created?
> is that you're for a curfew in summer
lol i'd be curious to see the 70% curfew approval drops to what percentage in the summer, especially if it stays at 8pm.
[deleted]
the contract was signed last summer. work begins in march.
no, the mtq agreement has * always * been to wait for champlain and turcot to be completed before starting work on the lhl tunnel
dude "fraishier" ... really?
do not deprive yourself
invisible dog leash - great gag! 
it's a little less than usual. i walk every night with my dog. must say that with the closure of bars and restaurants the city center was already dead enough
at gat it's always like that. it is a city of officials. everyone goes to bed at 8 a.m. anyway lol
amazon rubs its hands
air transat, air canada, club med: laughing out loud, it's essential to spend the holidays in the south in areas with 10 times more cases than here - especially since that's how the virus is returned home
if my faucet is leaking, do i have to call a plumber at $ 359 or can i buy an 88 cent o-ring at canadian tire?
if my daughter loses her tuque, am i not allowed to buy another one?
i have plenty of others like that.
i agree, but you have to be reasonable. it is clear that a tv cabinet can wait !!
worse, that means that the confinement will be a lot shorter. in the spring, people could buy whatever they needed, so it was easier to accept containment. just today on the sub it's the end of the world if your toaster fart or if you need underwear.
ah yes, very wise decision.
i'm convinced that preventing the world from buying underwear a row next to pickles will totally improve the situation ...
an essential ps5 stu?
seriously how does it work? what is essential and what is not? how do they control this?
we've had it since november 20 in manitoba, big stores are cheating, and local businesses are closing.
yeah on the other hand you have the right to see up to eight people outside, in the street or in a park, but not on your private land ... go shit legault lol. i was so 100% pro instructions at the base, now given its lack of logic i have nothing more to shit and i trust my common sense.
at least he shuts everything down. a broken clock is right once a day.
so let's see, are you serious here? i find it mind-boggling how many people find this a “solution” that looks great. when the images of that in france were circulating, everyone found it silly etc ... there seeing that it is here it is common sense all of a sudden? get it right there, i 100% agree with the principle that it's not fair that costco and walmart can sell goods that others can't, but this solution is to approach the problem backwards . if we really want to solve this, we must on the contrary let other non-essential goods traders open as well! before you comment that it's going to make matters worse, think about it right: is it better that hundreds of people are crammed like sardines in the fresh produce department at costco, or that people can? spread out more by being able to go to other less busy local businesses? personally, i think it would be much more logical to leave more shops open and thus relieve congestion in these large chains. moreover, by limiting access to non-essential products, those who are already punished therein (small businesses) gain nothing more. on the contrary, it is the consumer who is punished in this without any use in doing so. in short, as others have said, the only winner in all of this is amazon.
it's nice to see that we are getting closer to equality. it is sure that it is not perfect and he will always have good points that will be noted, but to see that the giants like wal-mart and costco do not have a huge advantage like in the last confinement is very good.
is it just me who can't understand the point of saving small businesses by preventing people from buying toaster at canadian tire?
of 1, almost 100% of the world buys their toasters in one of the three or four supermarkets anyway.
and two, it changes what in my life that the profits of the sale go in the pockets of american shareholders of the big surfaces or in the pockets of chantal who has her small shop and who is going to buy a condo in florida or trips to germany and an american tesla at the end of the year with its profits?
chantal no more fires the local economy than walmart, she hires 2 people with the same poor wages as supermarkets and anyway at the end of the line in 20 years we all know that it will just remain large supermarkets and the web giants because amazon and walmart, unlike chantal, does not insist on returning merchandise and always has everything in stock for less and are easier to access.
how are they going to monitor this and limit what is essential or not? as far as i know for me a toy is not essential, but for the 8 year old child locked up since the beginning of the covid it is essential for this child there. yet another "rule" that will not hold water ...
they have already had time to make a profit while the small businesses die! -_-
if you order anything non-essential online with canadian tire or wal-mart for a * curb-side * pickup, will it be okay?
well there is always wallmart.ca lol
i can't wait to see the crush along the quebec-ontario border ...
wal-mart / canadian tire / costco offers online shopping with in-store pickup. they will once again get away with it and take advantage of the situation.
i work for walmart and can't wait to see how they're going to handle this.
the lasource will be open ... what can be essential in this store ...
what worries me is the "two weeks". like the 28-day challenge, which started last october and is still awaiting the end
has a list of what is non-essential been given, because if cannabis is considered essential i can't see what is missing for a month.
edith: i just saw a list from manitoba, i can't wait to see the qc version.
when are they going to close non-essential sales?
goal my boxing week sale list !!!
[deleted]
legitimate question here. why are the saq and sqdc considered “priority”?
i have seen people argue that we have until december 25, 9 days to stock up in view of the closure of non-essential / priority businesses. how are these 2? because it is classified in the “grocery and other food stores” category?
you can very well buy your alcohol or your pot for 2 weeks in advance, i do not see how it is different from clothes or other.
honestly the choices of what is essential or not are still quite suspect like i went to walmart and we went to the animal department and all the aquarium stuff was blocked so as not to be essential and the chips and toys to eat. for rodents were also closed. like ok yes your cat and dog is essential but your fish will go dead too bad. it was really frustrating as a person who has axolotls and rats as pets. even more frustrating when we saw that makeup was presented as an essential thing. oops the rats will have to stay in their piss but at least chantal can put on makeup for her zoom call
i see in my head the image of bezos with a monocle that flatters a cat
i believe the caq is unaware that the internet exists.
amazon, in france, was prosecuted (and convicted) during the first lockdown for shipping items that were not essential.
so, quebec could perfectly restrict what they ship from their quebec warehouse.
i'm not a conspirator, but a crime that it wouldn't be crazy if bezos or the amazon shareholder orchestrated the pandemic knowing full well that people would order online if they were stuck at home.
people who downvote: it's satirical as a comment. we remove the toilet paper from the brain please.
it's not just amazon that has an online store.
it's not like we haven't seen this coming for 9 months.
wal-mart and canadian tire can still sell their baby food online.
it makes no sense that it is allowed to take the plane for sightseeing
yup ...
the criss of mass tourism, i have a lot of trouble with that ...
can the provincial do something about that or just the federal?
hardware is considered essential.
personally having a baby i found that children's linen is essential in esti ... after 2 months in confinement in march there was not much left that made him feel.
legault cited as an example coffee machines as non-essential that we can no longer buy
do you know what happens to me if i don't have my coffee in the morning?
> if my daughter loses her tuque, am i not allowed to buy another one?
let her freeze her ears. that will teach him to lose his tuque! ^^^ / s
just a beanie for your daughter? if not ordered as one, also pickup orders are allowed.
if your faucet is running, you have the right to go to the hardware store that is one of the essentials.
caliss it's two or three weeks. you really need to complain and find all the possible loopholes. stay home that's it.
there are hats in drugstores anyway. and in winter in quebec, pretty sure it comes in the essentials given the temperature
you can buy on the internet, buy from the walmart / kmart / winners / soulier local / dildo inc / rona site.
and basically:
for a large area, you go to the parking lot to make your click and collect, stay in your car. enter whatever code that indicates that you are in place to pick up your item during the period determined on your receipt. the shopkeeper brings it to you next to your car and you leave.
or, you buy online, a delivery man throws the package in front of your door and leaves. open your door and take the package.
in both cases: reduced interactions. employees deemed essential only: warehouses and delivery people with more space and less interaction.
only thus remains:
- post offices
- food traders (including saq)
- pet stores
- veterinarians
- pharmacies
- medical centers
and since these employers have an obligation to produce a safe workspace in terms of health and safety. many would not let people in as they wanted.
hardware stores remain only open to construction workers being able to show their construction cards and the rest is done only by click / collect and delivery.
i know it's tempting because it's starting to fret, but it's not time to heat up your underwear in the toaster, okay?
> just today on the sub it's the end of the world if your toaster fart or if you need underwear.
it looks like it's pretty complicated to buy toasters on the internet
a walmart toaster is a lot more essential than a chocolate bar between you and me.
the idea is that the person who needed a pair of underwear will therefore stay at home and not go out. it's simple, isn't it?
they should build a fake mordor volcano on the plains of abraham to keep visitors away
greater montreal soon ... and beauce too
c'est les [dark zones](
what are the black zones!? ... it's the crowd of i in tabarnak after the gym who is not able to manage ...
why do things halfway by erecting a fake volcano?
we already have the isengard not far with the new lighthouse tower.
naon. building anything in quebec always turns into a political disaster
source?
someone here is in the black zone
indeed, they should rather dig to the magma and lower a few kilotons of explosives!
oh, i didn't know! do you have the big eye of labaume looking everywhere?
yes, but if we use anti-masks as slaves to dig, maybe there would be a consensus? there are a gang who would be happy!
and for greater montreal, the last year of the pandemic
[source] ( for beauce
me .... see that i got downvoted ... made 171 cases because of the criss of mega fitness gym ...
by making a small detour through lévis, just to facilitate the 3rd link?
whoa there my big one. don't give the government an excuse to leave this kind of thing!
“he wants his hockey team. every day they get closer, and he feels her more, and her power grows. the idea that the hobbit bettman wants to hang her down a volcano hasn't entered the slightest of words. his dark dreams. in that, no doubt, you will see our good fortune and our hope. "
it is sure that it will not move quickly quickly if you rely on the obese anti-gym doomers to do the work!
honestly, it's not impossible but it would surprise me. the last year of the pandemic has accustomed us to the media leaking information to "prepare" us for the bad news. there was absolutely nothing to tease the greater montreal.
so good, as long as you are in the digging!
😂 but it's the dark red area, it has to be scary !!! ideally with lava flows.
we must find the precious hockey in quebec, the only team to rule them all!
i don't know, the conspirators like the 1st line of digging in the bottom of the hole, the anti-masks to operate the pulleys / elevators, worse the obese to transport food and equipment? i'm sure all anti-masks would be happy! the caq could thus ensure a 2nd term ...
there was absolutely nothing either for quebec, levis and gatineau until 4 hours before the press conference. looks like he knew the one would pass it less well.
> honestly, it's not impossible but it would surprise me.
what do you think the bad news will be at 5pm then?
tbnk... next budget provincial... watch this: lava clause asti 😆
exact
to be fair, i come from gatineau and we saw the cases go up enormously and the local media talk about it more and more. obviously the rest of the province didn't know because we never talk about gatineau but we knew it was coming and it was a matter of time before we were confined
when i made this comment, this news had not yet come out.
indeed, it does not look good.
there was even arruda the day before who said that the province could easily take 6x more cases. next day: quebec and levis are closed.
yeah, except that arruda 24 hours ago said the province could take cases, 6x more according to him, no stress. are you going to tell me that at 1:00 pm on tuesday the figures were correct (especially with the increases you mentioned) and that wednesday 8:30 am "quickly, quickly, press conference! we close everything!" let's see. with a flip-flop the same it almost gives restaurateurs a recourse for collective action. the govt is lucky to be damned that this crap emergency measures law will surely protect them from any blame, however mismanagement they may be. otherwise, we would be clean-out, with all the losses generated directly by the government's statements.
the news just confirmed this morning.
suddenly there were articles in the media that experts were saying that the government had to do something, which seemed to be to prepare us.
there have been similar articles for montreal in the last few days, but things have calmed down. to be continued.
yes i remember, big nonsense.
press briefing tomorrow at 5 p.m., the time for bad news
in short, it is no longer even veiled. the government governs for the media and its voting block. it values polls more than expert opinions that we pay a high price, such as public health.
new article this morning:
> in montreal too, there are worrying signs: there has been a 15% increase in cases over the past week on the island. “there are a lot of variants, so what happens in the quebec city region could happen in montreal very quickly, especially with the easter weekend,” says maude laberge, professor at laval university and researcher at the center de research of the chu de québec.
> benoit barbeau agrees. “montreal should very quickly undergo the same restrictions as quebec. the government should opt for a preventive approach and prevent the situation in quebec from repeating itself in montreal, which could cause serious problems in the montreal health network, ”he said. prime minister françois legault will provide an update on the pandemic on tuesday at 5 p.m. during a press conference in montreal.
motdzir yinqu'in affère
looks like borderline a slavic language xd
séyoutuva
i would not put z, mottedir youskon is going
i'm trying to teach french to my girlfriend, and this post makes me cringe, just because it's going to be rough trying to make people understand. phew haha
ok, ben ceouskonva? tumdirien
proud to learn quebecois with you
can someone tell me how "got me" means "i'm going"? i looked everywhere for an explanation and then found nothing.
criss each time chu laughed out loud. it looks like [mr. puel's language courses] (
music to my ears
mot'eldzir moé
tsevadir
yeah but c ousskeçé ousskon goes.
funny that makes me think of the creole that can be heard on mauritius
youkon\*
oussé kon va? tsu ma dzi ke talè mle dzir!
bear going?
de youss kon va r'soud?
vo *
moteldzir itoo
beautiful quebec creole
hahahaha too true!
it looks like french breaking algerian
gar moteul dir ce sucks rue la.
i've been studying french for ~ 1 month and watched this meme, chepa he mean, can someone explain for me? thank you! (sorry for the grammar errors)
words say where we're goin'? google translate is less than helpful here.
ej will tell you where we go - ** chiac ** adie
i find it a bit sad. it always talks about quebec libre. the truth is that our quebec identity passes bcp through our language. however, we always say that we speak french. this is not true. explains a frenchman that it is not a tabernacle, that it is not a room (a piastre) ... haiti did it and i do not believe that the creole is one of the reasons for the poverty of the country. of course, this meme is taken to extremes, and we should have real words for it. but still.
tuvom'dané
motdzir mekinai pu
i'll tell you where you go.
ayousstuva
go away chu simpson sire
found the gaspésien
i wouldn't put it there either.
yeh, the z screeching unrelated ...
good fields
i'm learning french as a second language and it took me a while ...
the truth is that, as a non-quebecois person, i can tell you that we will never be able to understand 100%. i'm not the only one, everyone i've known, immigrants of course, will tell you the same thing.
i've been "here" for 10 years and i'm learning new expressions every day. sometimes it's hard for some people to understand.
she would have trouble reading your answer too: p
i'm not a linguist but i think the original sentence probably sounds like: "i'm going to tell you (it)". if we drop the initial pronoun we get: “i'm going to tell you”. the more we accelerate, the going turns into going and the going away contracts into me. "to tell me or to tell you".
i always thought it was kind of an abbreviation of "me, i'll get you".
i never managed to find the exact etymology, but the french of missouri does the same with [tu vas] ( in over [i'm going] (
edit: it's a bit old, but [research on the origins of the variation vas, m'as, va en français québécois] ( fnd & pg = pa61 & dq = mougeon, + raymond. + 1994. + research + on + the + origins + of + the + variation + vas, + m% e2% 80% 99as, + vas + en + fran% c3% a7ais + qu % c3% a9b% c3% a9cois. + dans + fran% c3% a7ais + du + canada, + fran% c3% a7ais + de + france, + under + the + direction + of + thomas + lavoie, + 60-77 . + t% c3% bcbingen% c2% a0: + niemeyer. + & ots = ibjnhpfalq & sig = mhfhziiyzqrbeleugfr2kecxkzq # v = onepage & q & f = false).
lol worst of the times
hey friend! i'll do my best to explain it to you, but know that quebecois is full of colloquialisms that outside of quebec wouldn't make sense.
anyway, in the first square, "i'll tell you where we're going". this way of putting it the right way. on the contrary, "mat dzir ouskon va", is a contraction of several words which mean the same thing but in a non-formal, even popular, context.
"m" = i
"a" = go
"t" = te
"dzir" = to say
"or" = where
"s" = is this
"kon" = that one
"va" = va
in conclusion, if you want to come take a tour of our place and say that might be very funny but if you want to speak a formal and clean language, stick to the first way.
it says "i'm going to tell you where we're going."
i don't understand your point.
pi armandmoi zen pu
motzir yuskon and
* i'll tell you where we go.
it rhymes already, why not write it in verse?
the french language in all its splendor.
if my uncle mows your uncle, your uncle will be mowed
not badly certain that in the image it is a caterpillar. i say that the same there.
what if your green worm was a green glass worm, just saying.
c good french
writes the sequel. this is a good verse.
toto tried to suckle your aunt thérèse's toton
if six saws saws six cypresses, six hundred saws will saw six hundred cypresses.
to say out loud.
it's quite precise as a reference but it made me think of this [video] ( of slapping heads!
this is why i dropped french :(
buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo
don't forget this accompanying video
[
with raccoon's fastest, what will we say about the unsuccessful return of raccoon?
it reminds me of this, for those who don't know ryan george (who is from montreal by the way)
[
it's in english, but the same principle
edit .: it's at 2:00
my favorite quebecois tongue twister is: "i have felt so much the teat of aunty and just as much dabbled in the nipples of tonto" '
i am, my faith, overthrow
i do not understand
what is the other one with the walls and the walls? i don't remember
in winter.
when the green worm crosses the ottawa river it varnishes the franco-ontarian mdr flag!
quebecers are fascinating 🤣
average age of sub: 5 years old
that's why a nice discussion here!
in english please?
one said, the other told me again, are you looking skinny? i say, what my stomach says, it tells me: eat.
does the story of the green worm take place around antwerp?
ban! ban! ban!
"a glass of green glass" imho, not "a green glass of glass"
go vegan ! 😏
and y'all don't want me to surrender 😭😭😭😭
it could even tend towards worms in green made there
against all odds?
if your uncle mows my uncle, my uncle mows your uncle.
if it's six leeches sucking his blood, is it unsuccessful?
one year, a banana will have an anana.
i was telling myself the same thing 🤣
it could be covered in green vair too.
let's suck on your aunt's tempting nipple in your tent.
it made me laugh this one 😂
i was cypress to succeed.
shrimp scaler xdddddd
always but always an upvote for the slaps.
well english too can be hard too learn. it can be taught through tough thorough thought though...
for those who don't understand 
and what du candidly?
> dabbled in tonto's nipples
hmm. i guess this last exercise was not very successful ...
indeed, it is rather ʇuɐsɹǝʌuǝɹ.
this wall surrounding paris makes paris murmur ...
the ripe blackberry murmurs on the wall.
"*a green worm inches towards a green upside-down glass.*"
no, it doesn't work as well ...
[here is our attendance statistics] (
before the page was public but reddit no longer gives this option.
tokébac here
it's time to unsubscribe my old alts to go back to 100k!
a big 1% of the population of quebec!
[deleted]
we have stronger growth than r / montreal
i joined the sub years ago without ever having posted there (i think), i'm french but i find it very interesting to hear from our cousins in the west, and to hear from you!
i joined recently, but i feel like the ¾ of the posts are newspaper articles. is it just the covid effect or has it always been the same?
100,000 taking into consideration the province has ~8,000,000 inhabitants? not bad.
majority bloc!
b
two meters away, please.
aie aie aie! okokok. let's go!
where is my poutine that was promised when i registered here?
* continues to spy, from the united states with its subscription, on the shenanigans of the sub-forum of the beautiful province *
i also have a big member
because you keep it simple
the first time i see so many members in the same place.
must say that i did not go much to the parties of salvail and co.
living in free quebec
that's a lot of members.
one day my entourage will say "yeah, i was on reddit and ..." rather than "reddit? ostie, i don't understand anything in there"
we are not giving up, quebec!
we finally made 100k yay! now i can leave because i can't speak french.
goodbye my cousins of the east, i will let british columbia know we did it.
wow! at the same time as my cake day!
except that i'm just 2 years old, not (almost) 13 like r / quebec
2008.
when is an old sub enh? are we good?
my favorite sub.
don't let go of r / quebec!
congratulation!
100,000 whining! that makes opinions that.
cheers to us
happy kébeuk holiday!
[deleted]
ah well we have reached 10 million !!
8333 dozen and a third, to be exact.
[deleted]
[deleted]
having high growth is not always a good sign ... example: the growth of cancer cells in the human body.
this is a good comparison with the number of memes on / r / quebec
i'm more of a lurker on the sub so i'm not sure if there is a "competition" but i often see comments like this that demonstrate a kind of feeling of "denigrating" or "pissing further" than the sub from montreal. i don't see that on the montreal sub. is there a competition history?
always the same on all regional sub-reddit.
3 months ago it was 25% of business about trump, so we're improving!
i like that, me. i haven't been on the news anymore since i followed this subreddit. i owe you a couple of points in the pub quiz buddies.
it's always been a news-oriented sub-reddit.
on r / quebec it's not that bad, go see r / quebeclibre it's almost just that.
always much better than "i'm coming to quebec, give me an itinerary of everything that has fun to visit in three days"
three quarters are newspaper posts with few posivotes. if you want a lot of karma, you have to post memes on the news
well we take the opportunity to discuss and debate sometimes, worse if not there are some memes or texts of opinion redditienne
i like publishing newspaper articles. it helps to stay informed and has often enabled me to read articles that otherwise would have escaped me.
3/4 day, 1/4 same not funny.
[deleted]
ok but i keep my 2020 trump flag
they are going to bring her back, they are just waiting for olivier primeau to go bankrupt to recover the stock of poutine every day and save a cup of money. but i would drop the free poutine if you don't want to be disappointed.
100,000 micrometers?
400,000, unless there are amputees in the group
would you like to try our goat cheese burger, our poutine and sweet potato fries with beer sauce or our jalapeño deer tartare? extra fried pickles? with one of our excellent 78 ipas?
the more i get older the more i turn to the labatt 50.
sometimes with tomato juice and a pinch of salt.
still = distilleries, not breweries
you lack mason jars your starter pack, how are we going to drink her beer?
'+ the osti of good beer.
ostie i like micro beer but damn chu not capable the culture that usually comes around ...
the label is missing which tells a legend of the region in 5000 words
as the owner (25%) of a microbrewery, i just want to mention that i don't really like ipas, and i don't like sisters at all, so i would like us to do more. english style bitters and lagers, but that's not what everyone wants to drink.
otherwise i have a beard, tattoos, a paunch :(
our beer is made with love with municipal water!
you forgot the "herbs of quebec" which are just weeds
* special vip club at $ 500 per year
* strong or bbq sauces or any too expensive homemade condiment
* ipa to the limit of the gaze
one essential is missing: the untappd application!
- all beer names are pocket word games.
- off flavors everywhere
- fruit flies
you're just missing the burger smash and you're just basic enough loll
op, you forgot the '' tray of olives and homemade chips to share ''.
olives as the only veggie option
most shocking is that it hasn't always been the same. when i first discovered the world of microbreweries, back in the days when people laughed at ipas, the variety was impressive.
i feel old
me! my favorite microphone is molson!
no need for a still to brew beer!
me: hi, i'm from gaspé.
them from montreal: oh my god, i love pit caribou! the blonde de l'anse is my favorite!
every time lol.
i would like to have the money for restaurants
＋ a little more pronounced white dropshadow / glow around the black text over the dark items
if i understood correctly, it takes water to brew biiru biiru?
so i imagine that the story of the secret source is pipe?
i have my beautiful beard and i can't wait to be a brewer myself wish me good luck!
only $ 39
that's so xd (and everything is always delicious)
> poutine fries sweet potatoes
i know what i'm trying tomorrow, thanks.
> with one of our excellent 78 ipas?
so much, and they all taste the same thing and very few are memorable. "big juice" * hard pass *.
and what about the hype around their 32nd limited edition of the year!
as much as some brewers produce jewelry, damn that a lot of the marketers * turn off * me completely, have practically done so.
a good extra bitterness ipa. after a sip the face comes in from inside.
with us these 'mac n cheese' in a small bowl for children at $ 21 that dries up.
edit: i read ibu instead of ipa. my mistake!
> jalapeño deer tartare
what's this?
i could easily irritate 1/5 of my social circle with this image and your comment hahaha
ipas have been trendy for years. it's brett, sures and seasons by now.
til victor is a microbrewery.
you are coming my curse!
me with. not that i don't want to try mic beers, but i look at the beer wall at the grocery store for 10 minutes and i'm lost, the names don't ring a bell and they're all fucking expensive so after a little thought i take a 6 -pack of 50 udders that's it.
why did i read your comment with the voice of kevin brunure?
there are good thirsty beers made by our microphones
i am 20 years old and i have been drinking 50 for 3 years, don't worry; we are in the uncle boat together
no, but a good quebec gin with a funky taste and color! oh yeah !!!!
i would like to see the buck come back strong.
what is it that annoys you so much
the world that doesn't drink what you offer them because they brought back lots of weird beers.
> so i would like us to do more lagers and english style bitters
yes! it's a shame and not normal that at certain times of the year it is difficult to find an english bitter or pale ale ...
i tell myself that there is a vicious circle then that some do not go to microbreweries because the last time they visited one, it was just beers that taste too hoppy or sisters then there was a lack of beers lighter.
know that i may make a parody on brewery microphones, i buy a case of twenty kinds mixed almost every two weeks that i taste with my girlfriend before dinner. i don't like them all but some are really excellent. my favorite of all is the maple beer that i have at the brouemont restaurant in bromont. it's the only maple beer i find good and their meals are also excellent!
in my neighborhood pub, the coaster club is around $ 50. $ 500 is madness!
did you know it's poutine week?
why are her eyes turning into mouths?
i am jealous!!! i live in the united states and six years ago i visited quebec and ate your poutine
; -; i miss her
edits: i would like to immigrate to quebec in six years so one of these days i will still have poutine !!
it is true that the small estaminet which supplies the neighborhood with poutine has scandalously increased its prices for poutine since the forced closure ...
lpt: since we're all tied up, order your poutine with the cheese on the side, add it afterwards, and voila, it's squick squick then it's not all soft by the time it happens.
it's like the pork ad. it's still more believable with poutine.
[deleted]
so that's it, fuck my plans for dinner tonight. we order henri (the best poutine in joliette)!
there are plenty of good poutines but generally i'm wary of those who claim to know where there is the best city in town.
i miss eating poutine so much 😭 can you send it to the new zealand pleeeease
: << i ate my first (and last) poutine last fall. i miss her ...
but the poutine where exactly?
perfection
for those in montreal: greenstop's poutine and greenspot's poutine are both excellent.
to take 10lbs!
it's like at rockfest when you're dehydrated and on the verge of death, you just have $ 14 in change in your ziplock that serves as your wallet and you pass by the stand where they sell poutine at bacon / turkey / hot pepper.
really hot haha! i really like the eyes of the 3rd box: p
keep it up!
seriously, i moved from montérégie to chicoutimi and it's sad to curse their choice of poutine. i haven't found one yet except the one in labaie.
my death with my poutine!
op, if you're in montreal, give a drop-off point and i'll have something delivered to you with uber tomorrow. if we can make someone legally happy in exchange for a funny drawing, why not?
man, i have to learn how to make my cheese or my fries. it's been 13 months since i ate poutine. i'm bored
edit i am grayed out with a bacterial culture today at the cheese festival (not in qc) to make cheddar cheese. ohh ....
a good poutine from valentine
not even: o for real ??
but i didn't even know it was a thing
this is my take out for tomorrow! i am open to recommendations!
maybe it has to do with the expression "eating with your eyes"? or maybe not: p
fuck, i can't go back to a time that i haven't seen this.
yes! come to quebec for the poutine !! haha
i understand you. i have lived in germany for 5 years and forget about poutine. they are not even able to make fries that look good, they are mcdonald's fries as far as the eye can see.
nooooon! i want it to be half-melted or to be all stuck like a loaf of bread so i can eat it with a knife. / s
poutine not consumed on site must always be ordered “ikea”. you assemble it at home. the sauce makes the fries too soft. set you aside. the cheese melts and becomes a kind of cheesy octopus welded together under the heat of the fries ... you set aside too! when you get home, you can heat your fries in a small oven if you don't have the sauce in its cup in the microwave, without spoiling your cheese.
this is the way.
such fucking lies! the highway also if you like spicy sauce
check them out with the overdriven henri, you're just jealous of not having super mario near
are there dairy farms in new zealand? at the limit you show up on the spot and you ask to have cheese not yet processed (not pressed and put in a wheel), ideally something that looks like cheddar or gouda. all you have to do is find good fries (almost universal) and make your sauce, and voila! of poutine in new zealand!
from warwick, the authentic.
where do you prefer <3
chicoutimi: red burger bar (in the basement of the chicoutimi hotel) /
at georges
jonquière: hot dog pavilion / at baby's / at granny's / hopera / pi pauline (p'tit st-do) at 3am did a job
which ones have you tried?
my favorite poutine in chicoutimi was chez mamie (the one with pizza omg what a surprise when i tasted it for the first time), but when i left, they had just changed the container and that made all the difference because 'there was less sauce and cheese. :-( the old container was wide and shallow, the new one was narrow and deep. otherwise there's the bonne patate itou. and my friends swore only for chez bébé in jonquière. in the less traditional, i liked that of la voie maltée.
if you're ready to go up to the lake, there's perron's poutine bar and i loved the one from the street food truck le repaire de l'eglise (only in summer).
the richness of poutine in saguenay lies in the fact that you always have the choice between bbq sauce and hot chicken sauce. i ask for both. ah, the cheese too! i am often disappointed by the freshness of the cheese in poop in the poutines of quebec. but hey, these are the consequences of being born in the kingdom of dung cheese i guess.
moé too mon chum, moé too
i am in mirabel, but thank you anyway !! it's really nice to give it away!
i'm sure there are some great poutine recipes on the internet!
hell yesss! i ordered two poutines from the place which won last year. not badly good.
spoil yourself! [ marge(
yet it has been around for several years and it's pretty big!
it's called poutine week in fact, but i categorically refuse to call it in english, whereas poutine is quebecois (oh well, i'll die before i agree to say mac n 'cheese).
it's just a way of closing eyes that's funny, but you can interpret that as mouths haha
imagine it's a 3 instead
seriously, i will immigrate to quebec one day :-)
not just for poutine though ... it's not a bad idea
are you close to belgium? at least they know how to make fries!
not so much a report, but i found that ikea had done quite well with their poutine bar ... obviously the last time i was able to taste it was over a year ago ...
henri delivers at least;)
cool thanks for the suggestions.
nobody says engine here, in my experience the rest is pretty common yes.
i'm not going to lie ... i love this little word ford-war that has been appearing on my reddit feed for the past few days. more popcorn (puffcorn, popcorn) please!
windshield washer / winshiel washeur
the first time i said "break à bras" to a frenchman, he found it so funny. seems that "handbrake" is the respectable expression 😆
my feeling is that we use a lot of english in everything that is technical (mechanics, construction, agriculture, heating) ... everything we have learned to do with the equipment, the manuals, the suppliers , english speakers, who are those who were available around us. but that our sentences are today punctuated by less english for the rest.
missing clutch
on the other hand, we still say "i parked my tank in the parking lot".
haha
war, war ... a reason to do wrong
the difference is that we use english language only orally, not in writing in official situations.
edit: it's not a hard and fast rule, but in general it's my observation
i never heard anyone say "engine" instead of engine
nobody says engine ...
i know nobody who will "tank", but several who will "gas", possibly to fill the "gas tank". in general, in my entourage, we will especially "put gas in the tank".
well, finally one who makes the joke as it should!
(we do not say engine in passing but we do say the rest)
you made a mistake in "tinquer".
(i'm kidding, this spelling doesn't exist)
for me the worst is the "à la neuneu" translations of anglicism to be able to say that it is not english .... like "vegan" .. tsé is not "vegan" eh no no no, not at all, it's french, it's vegan with an "e" !! and even if the word vegan has been around for the same thing forever, that's okay.
or even sadder: "showroom"
i love! speaking of parking, there is one thing that i noticed when going to france: here in quebec we tend to combine anglicisms more than in france. there they will say "park in the parking lot" but here we are going to say "park in the parking lot". there are a lot of examples of the same, although it's not that binary. it's alive.
who says "engine" and "windshield"?
phew! the thread has been locked to / r / rance ...
you shouldn't quarrel with our french cousins there either. we're just teasing each other.
personally i find it hilarious that they took a photo of the leader of the bloc québécois in the granny.
who the fuck dit engine. 🙄
on the other hand, i never said "park" in my life, just to think about it hurts.
ah, we say windchire, not windshield. 😘
yfb in power-pose, take my posivote and get out!
ahahaha well done.
without forgetting to flash your highs, call the flagship in french. lol the french have a good laugh when i said that.
* red light * - "red light"
this anglicization of car parts, tools, * shop * jobs * (we * punch * before our * shift *, we do * overtime *, it's the * break *, etc.) is a symptom of our exploitation by the english. not too long ago, all of these proletarian jobs were done in english and were run by english people. the english-speaking lexicon then remained in the popular language.
i often listen to french twitch streamers, and indeed they do not use anglicisms in the same place as us.
wide stance yfb is the gravy granny
clutch // clutch.
we keep it friendly i love them my cousins: ')
i approve this message
even if it was all wrong, the yfb still makes me laugh 🤣
engine?
and the tires (which have a flat)
spot on, except that we also say engine here.
hahaha i love it !!
criss, that's funny.
ouhhhh, * shots fired *!
and the arm brake? (hand brake)
you forgot the most stupid:
warning = quat' flashers
gotta love the french vs québec civil war.
i had remembered that the difference between a french and a quebecois is that the french park in the parking lot and the quebecois park in the parking lot.
it's fun.
maybe it's more regional than i thought but saying "parking" is very common in lesser areas as well. i would even say it's used more often than colloquial "parking".
working in a garage gives us a couple more.
ratchet / ratchet
a hydraulic jack / cylinder?
a steel wire / steel cable
a lift / chariot elevator
maybe except ticket and sometimes bumper, i've never heard any of those words here in 30 years.
surprise surprise most of the time i use french words not anglicisms.
where i come from we say "windshir" 💘 instead of "windshield".
warehouse> wouairasse
in computer science also the terms are often in english, although it is relatively easy to know what it is in french. except for "spacer", you stay "standoff".
it is not true that we say "tanker", it is "tinquer" that we say, for crying out loud.
there are many who have already talked about engine but there are still several others on the list that depend on the world. personally i say refuel, engine, dashboard / dash 50/50, puncture / flat 10/90, flasher, ticket, bumper, windshield and wiper (but the liquid is windshield washer fluid).
nasty beautiful photo. we can complain, quebec is still a beautiful city.
how many degrees?
credit: rm. nunes
damn i would like to see the photo in good quality, i bet we can read the small print of the golden dog above the door of the post office 😍
i love this legend
superb, thank you.
qu ** é ** bec. city.
it wouldn't be worse to credit the photographer. me colice a little of the serious price
as much as it was not practical to live in the old, i miss the character of the neighborhood ...
\*quebec city.
anybody live in qc and want to be friends with an american whose french is not so good? i’m moving there in march and would definitely like to meet some friendlies :)
very beautiful aerial photo of the château frontenac which dominates the city of quebec in the fall; i love to take pictures on board the quebec lévis ferries over the seasons for the changing light in one of the most beautiful cities in the world !!! ⛴ 📷🍁🍂🌳🌲🌤🌥☁️☃️💕
quebec \ * \ * \ * not quebec city.
great picture, can't wait to visit again.
magnificent city. too bad (after my last trip) she is a little dead ... outside of old quebec i have the impression that nothing is happening. and then public transport which works in a curious way, strongly the tram
my birth place, beautiful city and try to go back at least twice a year usually in summer or winter.
the real canada [💪] ( let’s be proud my brothers !!
seems to me that we should be due for a nice photo of limoilou to make a change.
i see my job in this photo =)
where's the samurai?
i love taking short trips to quebec! very beautiful indeed and pleasant. not being able to go this year is difficult, i can't wait to go back when we are back to normal.
yeah, the problem with quebec isn't its look, it's the people who live there.
the real question!
quebec city
when you click on it it is in good quality :)
it is done! :)
yes of course!
what do you mean it wasn't practical?
i live in an adjacent neighborhood, i can easily go to the old town! it's the best of all worlds!
but yes, it's a shame that it is not more suited to make it good to live there. it's crazy that there isn't a grocery store in the whole area (and i'm not talking about grocery stores that are actually convenience stores that sell everything more expensive here ...)
imma stay with quebec city
heyy! i'm always up to meet new people! i'll help you with your french! dm me if you want! 😃
i live in the province of quebec but the city québec , although i lived there a long time ago. feel free to pm me!
pm me.
i don't mind. my english isn't perfect, but it's definitely not bad.
also, there is some people in quebec city who speaks exclusively english. the percentage is very low, but they do exist.
sure. you can pm me.
heummm ... i don't quite agree. i live close to rue cartier and there is a lot going on. the same goes for limoilou, where i have also been.
on the other hand, it is sure that if you go to lebourgneuf, let's say ... issssh. i do not understand the people who live in quebec and who settle near the boulevards. it's depressing. but hey, i left the region, if i had wanted life "home, land and car", i would have stayed where i come from, this type of life was 1000 times more pleasant in my native region than quebec anyway. so i guess right off the bat, i just can't understand the thinking of the people doing this.
i find it to be the opposite. apart from parks and tourist traps, the majority of fun activities (at least, for those who come with the family) take place outside old quebec. village vacance valcartier, aquarioum, the videotron center, even shopping (other than for the purchase of souvenirs) is done outside the city center.
the city center remains the best place for museums and the opportunity to take great photos, however.
the problem c the word “beautiful”
where funny?
it's been a few times that i see this thought expressed here ... what's the problem with the world of quebec? from my experience the people there are super friendly.
the world of quebec is quite correct. it's the radio x listeners our problem, we all look like big cellars because of this gang of inbreds there.
you really have to be exceptional to allow yourself to judge a whole city at once like that.
pathetic ...
what is the problem with the people who live in quebec?
as a resident of quebec city, i confirm. must say that we have the radio to thank for feeding the problem too = (
i came to say that 😂. people on the internet are losing their sense of humor.
unfortunately not enough :( reddit compresses the images a lot. it would have to be uploaded to flickr or another such site that allows uhd
at the same time, i ask for a lot hahaha
no parking, no nearby grocery stores, only tourist shops, roads blocked for 1001 reasons, terrible traffic ...
> also, there is some people in quebec city who speaks exclusively english.
mmh, not.
i hope that the city will have a great development like montreal. the density of a city in general defines its activity and the care given to it
it's like the prejudices about the us. when you go there most of the people you meet are really chill. but the stereotype doesn't exist for nothing either. quebec is the capital of "i'm not racist, but". (i come from and i live there, it's not in haste)
my taxes, my tank, metallica!
if the election itself does not excite me much, the grannies will at least know how to cheer me up.
they'll know, did you get caught?
i just noticed that it says “the erection is triggered” instead of “the election”. tasty detail. youthful, but really funny.
coliss it's beautiful. i laughed, i cried. i was scared now i can't wait.
lol i laughed at bloc majoritaire. my vote is the same
someone should write an opinion letter to all the newspapers entitled "why more and more anglophones are voting bloc"
i don't care about the content
i hardly ever vote up for memes, but i make an exception for this one.
“a day may come when the courage of men will fail when we will abandon our friends. but that day has not arrived ! it will be time for wolves and shattered shields when the bloc age collapses. but that day has not arrived. today we will fight for all that is dear to us on this good land. ”
a good granny asti that.
b
the big change of subject on r / quebec 2021 - the trailer
congratulation!
i laughed well at block majority
it almost gives the sewer for real haha
what a quality granny!
very strong.
a quality granny.
a grandma's jewelry. not fair, lotr is my heartache
bin spicy this granny there
#majority
finally a quality post. thank you!
art.
i would like to know how to edit gifs. i would take the scene where gandalf tells the soldiers to hold the line just to see three gigantic trolls come in and sweep everything in their path to do something with it. i don't know what yet, but i'll do something with it.
like shitpost it's really unbeatable. hat!
woohoo electoral compass
i wonder if the bloc has ever considered seeking out the francophone counties in the roc (acadians, franco-ontarians and others. they would be good allies to become a majority and also i think they need better representation. .
does anyone have an explanation for a passing frenchman?
thanks for the giggle out here on the west coast, i hope this happens
even though i am proud to be from quebec, i rarely share the popular opinion of r / quebec. on the other hand, i am completely behind this kind of quality grannies.
you make me even more proud to be from quebec. thanks op!
jagmeet singh ?
perfection
if i were not a pro-independence activist and a minor, i would vote ndp by elimination. the liberals, as we have seen, speak well but it does not matter. the conservatives are categorically no for reasons of principle. and the green party is too small to do anything so it would be like throwing a vote in the trash.
there, we need an open-minded and proactive government. if we want to be able to survive as a nation and as a species, we must 1) protect the environment, and stop financing pipelines to focus on green energies and on the urbanization of the agro-food sector and on smes, canadian and quebec. in short, we need a government that is not afraid to rethink things.
this is my opinion, and does it really matter? i'm not even old enough to vote, so no. but i still think that an environmental and economic plan adequate to the current situation must be an important criterion in the choice of the party for which people will vote in the elections.
in any case, if i were of age, i would probably vote for the bloc (and therefore for my former history teacher, ives perron).
(yes, i flex a little)
(super good teacher and deputy)
i vote for trudeau in the municipal elections of saint-lin-laurentides.
even quality based. high voted.
i had a thrill
justin and jagmet are orcs.
my sides hahaha
i feel like i'm watching a wallstreetbets granny.
very good, well done.
i like all the same that the federal government left the arrangement of the seats so that the bloc has the possibility of being * flush * ~~ majority ~~ \ * minority if 100% of quebec votes with a worse edge than the rest of canada is * precisely * 33.3% / 33.3% / 33.3% liberal / conservative / ndp
it's like leaving a smash achievement on the last page in a corner that says "farts at least 1000 guys in a cruel melee game" you know that probably won't happen, but it's just there
it looks for that! in any case, i risk voting bloc a second time; the roc just has to elect inspiring party leaders if they want my vote.
even when the roc is ready to concede that yfb is the best party leader, there is something wrong.
the absence of the green party, are you the pirates?
for the downvotes, have you seen the film?
late as usual
i'm going to vote npd the same even if i'm a demon
pouet pouet pouet
don’t leave us. quebec is my favourite provence (from ontario)
material to convince all the undecided.
question from noob but what is the "roc"?
i laugh at her again! !!
so who is aragorn and the ghost army?
a delight all these comments this morning.
i'm not voting, but lol good one. i wish it for you
😂😂😂😂😂
fuck off that, it takes the flq in times of the same.
worthy of wsb's greatest viral videos
[deleted]
the pcu warriors ....
let's stop defending the french, we must preserve the quebecois :), i'm in love with this language, even if i can't speak it :)
st'icitte
as an anglo, i am loving these!
drills
i repost my meme with another format, i thought the other was wrong
poooopiiiiir
chpenske you reason
think that's where g jigger the cod on the edge of the cut
i do not understand a lot of french maid i understand!
argorre thinks it's funny lgro
nice
is there a collection of all of these memes?
poffe corne
these posts are so beautiful.
finally a statement is supposed to change, we must stop with the instrumentalisation of the protection of french. it is the quebecois who must be protected and celebrated above all.
and stop with the fear of the english-speaking invader, borderline xenophobic really.
stula?
penskest’icitte
spa like that, that would mean that it's there
in my bottle, we say: drettla.
\ * toraison xd
well no big. i went checked!
now that i have members, i will run for the post of premier of quebec: d
they say using no accent or cedilla ... -_-
drette là!
pans'po k'séla. sta'côté
correction:
high five, hug and vote from me!
mar'garder'la'ouère
[deleted]
ar'rien pentoute
benon! on but stay there. speupa!
jenrviens pa! sposed to be there.
apparently, we are not very popular. worse, we had the creation of the poutine stolen.
tabarnak
looks moman i'm going to tévé!
i have been living where bc has been around for a long time. the irony that i often hear these how they criticize the americans for their division without realizing the beam that they have in the eye themselves vis-à-vis quebec.
worse when we want to leave it starts to bawl and say: i love you ....
not false. but we could also put the provinces and the federal government beating the aboriginal peoples and that would also be more or less representative.
obviously, we find an example of this image in the comments.
honestly, i read all the comments, pi the majority are in our favor, pi those who are not get caught pi downvote to hell, it's really not that bad
i tried to put some context: 
it's always fun to see us on other sub
orgarde! ayoye ouch! jpâsse has tele moman!
:( porké y loves us po
true cancer like sub on the other hand good visibility hehe
r/quebecbashing
the rest of canada has not stopped being “mean” quebecers. we often make fun of quebecers.
it would be true if they could red ensign it.
it's more difficult to agree with something as if when the prime minister comes from quebec and wears a quebecois mon.
it is true
omfg, i was able to stop laughing.
accurate.
frogge
so looking forward to both sides in the comments
this is the time for the dictatorship, we are going to colonize the savages of the tabarnaque calis.
# [...](
^((i'm sorry... but lol. i've been on a plume kick lately. this seemed relatable.))
no but seriously, that's not why they're whining over there. what is the problem with r / historymemes?
\*\*\*
no but seriously, i don't know why they're all bitching over there. so what's got r/historymemes's panties in a twist?
frankly, it's not as if quebec is oppressed. several quebecers have been prime ministers (jean chrétien, wilfrid laurier, etc.), they are very present in the federal government and canadian politics. quebec receives a lot of aid and money from the federal government (this even provokes the jealousy of the western provinces), thanks to canada, we enjoy an excellent international reputation and are fortunate to be part of a world economic power.
the comments on r / historymemes are honestly * not that bad *, but when quebec is mentioned elsewhere on reddit, i often see some pretty inappropriate and free comments about us with multiple upvotes ...
of chalice
it's quite tragic that poutine has become "the canadian dish". it's made a canadian stereotype. i met a couple from texas at a casino and they asked me if we said "poo-teen" or "poo-tin".
of criss
r / poutineisquebecois
you exactly understood the satirical mood that i wanted to create!
well then! it's a completely different situation! canada is not divided at all because everyone is united against quebec! pfft!
i didn't need any training to understand concepts like systemic racism or dog whistles, just to think about how i was treated when i worked for bell.
toxic relationship of mard
tm populating threshing
it is almost as if it is a pattern of an oppressed population to find another population to oppress in order to feel superior.
it's 50% tankies 50% wehraboo, but the fun with this sub is the world correcting the same in the comments, a bit like / r / badhistory
you're donbin out of touch with lmao reality. check man, i already got sucked punched pcq i spoke in french in alberta. in addition to being blocked for promotions ...
you don't know your story if you don't understand why quebeckers feel oppressed.
it's a meme ...
okay, it's the same thick gang from air canada, they roam on r / all too.
honestly, by dint of defending quebec on r / canada and the other canadian sub, i realized that it's just always the same 4 guys every time.
we have always been hated.
i keep seeing english speakers on reddit calling for discrimination because, according to them, they get looked at fault if they speak english outside of montreal, and it disappoints them that quebecers are also "close minded".
imagine if we were frustrated by not being served in french everywhere in ontario and even called them xenophobes just because of that ...
by tabarnak
well no, there are some who are united against the natives too.
#bellletstalk
that's what happens, financial insecurity so you stay in your toxic relationship ...
i don't think you have the reverse relationship. it is because western civilization believed itself to be superior that it believed it could de facto and morally do what it did to indigenous peoples.
it's like saying "black people in the us are treated well, there was obama as president!" a change in the present does not erase history, and the cultural biases still existing.
for the promotion it was perhaps not because of the origin ...
that's pretty darn wide a search area.
they sell these at canadian tire if you really can't get your hands on this exact one, you can at least replace the physical and keep the memories.
i hope you find it but if not and you would like i will send you one op. just dm me. only because no bad memories should ever be tied to quebec. best of luck to you!
bonne chance! i hope you find your little buddy
was the octopus yesterday's amber alert?
don’t be sad op, even if you don’t find him, you’ll still some good memories you can cherish
that's a cute plush toy! good luck in your search. 
anything more specific than "somewhere" that you can tell us?
they are sold pretty much everywhere. can also be bought on amazon ! is this the same ? 
the real ones will recognize pepito kawasaki.
i’m so sorry friend! good luck finding your lil buddy ❤️🐙
good luck
time to set off the amber alert.
you need to contact ryan reynolds he’s done the impossible like this before
[deleted]
i hope you find it!
good to know i'm not the only one going at a few spots with my octo
not weird, hope you find it
hope you find it. look super cute
hope you find it. my partner has a few of those to help her deal with her anxiety, these things are national treasures !
i love plushies! i hope you get him back
i'll try to see if i can find anything in my area.
good luck on your search. you will find him!
i hope you find him!
i’d really like the know the story behind him?
someone, please send op a friggin toy octopus!
you may be able to reduce the search area with your location history. if you use google maps it may be recorded here:  
there is probably a way to get location history using apple maps, but i don't have any experience with that.
i will keep an eye out
get this woman her octopus !!!!!!
edited: misgendered
oh, these things are everywhere
they are sold for 14.99$ in canadian tire. got two!
funny, i saw a kid throw a similar toy out of the window of an suv on route 132 near the champlain bridge last week i think.
did you try calling the train station? it's probably a long shot but they might have a lost and found. if not, think hard on the last time you had him, he might be at a place you can call.
i feel bad bro hope you find it, i have something that i’ve had since i was two that i would be completely heartbroken if i lost
i have your little friend. will release him/her/it to you for $500000.
this isn’t meant to be mean but reddit probably isn’t the right place to post this, no hate tho
well yes, you. above all, don't want to get a plushy for free ...
i saw it! it returned to its family in dolarama
[removed]
you know it's bad when the search area can be pointed by an astronaut on iss
it would take a dude to just buy one and tell him he found it ...
thank you! i know that i can get a new one and i will, just that one is special :) 
i know, i'm weird.
came here to say this!
this is so nice! i would love one from quebec. not sure if i have right to ask thing like this tho
thank you!
it should be.
thank you!
i lived in quebec-city in cavalier du moulin hotel and walked mostly in old downtown in the bottom end on funicular.
and i travelled by train to montreal, so train station maybe. and then i walked towards hi hostel.
thank you!
qc city **or** montreal?
thank you for looking into it for me! i know that they can be bought in multiple places, i was just slightly hoping that it is possible to find my octopus. other one is good, but significance is gone :) i still appreciate your effort!
thank you!
thank you!
yess
i find myself with a lot more questions than before having seen this comic.
carnival de québec takes a dark turn when you think of the shit bonhomme has seen
well, it's decided, i am becoming a neigetarian!
is it because there are too many militant vegan hipsters in montreal that we don't have snow?
i thought they were being pushed off a plane. ah well we learn every day.
ah that's why the carrots on the ski slopes
sacrament is dark in sale
i can't believe i'm sad for something that exists po ... it's clever.
ah, is that what it means to make snow ?! having known i would have taken the job at mount olympia.
no worries everyone, these snowmen were humanely killed
source: 
if you are sad about it and eat meat, think of all the non-human animals that are suffering for your taste buds right now 🙂
did you know that .... the snow cannons on ski slopes and mountains use water to recycle sewers to make artificial snow !!!
this cane full of caribou will help the pain go away... for now... rip bonhommes 😢
not the same who make the slopes in val cartier? :(
cursed.
this year take leave unfortunately, there is nothing that appears with us
very misinformative indeed!
i remember ... the [powder blue.] (
but where are you going to get your flocoins from?
no, it's because of the americans using trucks to get milk from the convenience store around the corner.
before they were pushing them but peta whined fek asteur there must be shot one by one. it's more civilized but it causes delays all over the place
well no it's all white
the same thing
ayaa thank you even me i didn't have it
it's a great lesson in altruism.
this is how it turns artificial snow, do research!
at least you get your vitamins a thanks to the carrot.
don’t touch my bagged milk
its artificial po its natural if its an organic breeding
i laughed a lot!
yabinri
far from me the idea of doing pillosity-shaming, but it gives him a false air of manon massé.
francoise merkel
imagine the combo with boris johnson
if thurston moore was our pm
it makes him look like [gérard depardieu] (
[he looks like the coach of the german soccer team] ( (jpeg) /cdn.vox-cdn.com/ uploads / chorus_asset / file / 22356116 / 1187715616.jpg)
francois biebeurre
credit: [l'actualité en memes] (
in a parallel universe where françois legault was the bassist of voivod.
françois legault is the head of a union
le look phil spector !
i refuse to use the word “homework”, but if there is work to be done at home, i ask the minister to take care of it. not all my ministers can use the word “duty”.
beautiful hair à la boris johnson
cegep is for smoking pot, alright
borris johnson in quebec
wait there ... did you elect a redhead? have you elected a red roux ?????
ok but well done for photoshop talents
francois “la mounoute“ legault
r/blunderyears
d r i p
isn't that françois's sister?
he looks like the youtuber that kids love ,,? karl jacobs or something
i don't know he has the vibe 😂
i can't believe nobody mentioned it, but the producer [kevin shirley] ( are not bad and françois are not bad) alike.
it looks like the love child of donald t. pis manon massé ....
lol his son had the same cut in high school
it's jim halpert
he looks like me like douglas reynholm from the it crowd. 
(edited to cover the link)
quite surprised at the ease with which carles puigdemont was able to infiltrate quebec politics.
light eo (translation of ugly af?)
almost as milky as boris johnson
looks like boris johnson!
francois skywalker: covid strikes back
elvis?
he has a nose job?
what do you mean 'he would have' ???
john legault singer of the beatles, known
legault fuck boy?
i never wanted to have this image in my head
manon legault
in general, your swag is cheap-copy us 😁
he has big penis energy.
whats his forehead hiding? maybe a swastica carved by the inglorious bastards.
everyone has the same face in quebec, tbh.
there are like 3-4 quebecois models.
i said the same thing to manon massé, but i don't see how it would be shaming. to me it's just that they have a similar face, so with similar hair, the resemblance becomes more striking.
one of them is more mustache for example
me, i rather see the catalan puigdemont
to stay within the rules and the tenants of the sub, i will calculate my words and answer only one thing, and imagine a teenager who smoked pot in the 80s: "fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuckkkkk !!!"
close the thread, there will be no better comment
cheapo bojo and the clown
75% applaud! the rest continue to whine. 🤷
we will be able to french at the beachclub soon.
tbk what happened here
this thread is a dumpster fire.
17 years old and i had it yesterday!
me it's tomorrow morning !!! : d
i already hear my conspiratorial dad broke my ears with this
nice
ok more...
the objective was revised to the 12 years and +, we do not give up!
it also counts people who have an appointment for their first dose, because the official figures are not quite there. that's over 62.7% as of june 3. ([source] (
i want collective thanks in the chat!
roll on the second thing, as quickly as possible, please !!!
it is still a big step towards a more normal life. don't let go of my quebecois / quebecoise! 👌
tomorrow for me, so it's going to keep going up.
well done to my brothers and sisters !! i'm pretty proud of you guys !!
go for a 28 day challenge!
cool, first of all, why are we putting curfews back in each quarter now. it's gonna take what to take her away for good.
seriously, what does that change?
they moved the finish line 75% in all 12+ age groups.
a beautiful milestone that means nothing ...
the 25% have a big mouth tonight. and really really wanted to go to the old port has to believe.
as such it is much less than 25% who are complaining. we have 75% done, but with the appointments and if we trust the polls, it is more in the 80-85% that we risk to reach in the end and the remaining 15-20%, a large part are not anti-vaxx ... it's just that they do not care.
people who are really angry that we have reached 75%, that's a big max 5% of the population.
fuck no. i made my appointment as soon as i could. i was vaccinated on june 10, but i waited for a while.
they said over 18
imagine antman translated into quebec
i missed the party. i walk in and see comments erased and people talking about them. it's like going to the store and when you arrive it's a smoking pile of debris, and the firefighters are putting their stock away.
ciborium thanks for the warning ... i went to read anyway and i shouldn't have.
we can’t have anything nice pour quelques minutes. 🙄
[deleted]
because people are exposing the problem of our society it's a dumpster fire?
thank you 1000x for getting vaccinated !!
being conspi and seeing that 3 out of 4 adults have had the “death jab” and that the only impact has been the incredible drop in covid cases must be frustrating.
in fact, the reality is that the rate needed for herd immunity to work depends on the rate of transmission and many other factors, 75% is just a "ballpark", and the one currently estimated is 70% in fact!
for other diseases it is 60%, 80%, or even 95%.
so the% may change over time, but obviously the best is 100%.
it makes me laugh so much that there are people cave enough to vote down a positive message haha ...
get out of your house if you're upset that things are going well, and even better, and / or that you missed the press conference where it was said ...
come on my little 2 ¢ protesters, burn my karma if it makes you feel good, i'm happy haha! 🤣
once that is achieved, it revises to 75% of the total population. but it is sure that we can not reopen before 80%. besides the objective has always been 90%, i do not know your figures come from where.
your source shows the percentage of the total population vaccinated. the post talks about vaccinated adults, therefore 18 years and over
we could not be accused of not having tried to flatten this curve there.
do they put back the curfew by neighborhood? where?
it was a federal agency that imposed the curfew on the old port.
what are you talking about? there is no more curfew
75% of adults received their first dose. it's a nice goal, but it's only the first. to achieve good coverage, you have to reach 75% of the two doses in each age group and in each region of quebec, since we tend to hang out with people of our age who live nearby, of course.
be sure that the door is open ... that the .gov sees that a large part of the population is not offended and / or applauds a liberticidal measure such as the curfew. it really doesn't surprise me to see them use it for other reasons.
give them an inch, they'll take your fkn arm. it is standardized asteur, what is it going to be in five years? criss that the world discourages me ... a province of no column, addicted to a nursery state, serious; fuck the quebecois who encourage that.
governments throughout history have rarely abandoned authoritarian measures on purpose. it takes strong opposition, and you don't have to rely on the media ...
does it change that three-quarters of the adult population had a first dose of the vaccine about three weeks before the initial target of june 24, which is, unambiguously, a good thing?
downer not bad. for me this is great news.
it might mean nothing to you, but it's already a step in the right direction. the world needs to understand that this is either the vaccine or the government's actions.
as manolo laporte-carpentier would say: "persecution!"
it makes me laugh because this world would normally never think of going to the old port to chill. but there it is, and their freedom is being violated!
i don't understand her but i laughed at her the same
cheer up! with the announcement of the new schedule for the 2nd doses, fuck man it's almost over! must feast. we will be able to go and hug our mothers and grandmothers soon.
i've been spending less here lately, i'm reassured that it just seems like a minority who really really like going to the old port at night a lot.
well, we won't be able to vote for him, but we still have catherine dorion, who is a bit like the dragon ball z fusion of alexandria ocasio cortez and bernie.
spice.
marvel: “infinity war is the most ambitious crossover event in history.”
/ u / barberousse87: "hold my beer"
bernie for pm of quebec!
do you really want american policy in quebec ...?
or do you want strong leaders?
it's even is very big 😂😂😂 i speak hindi, english and french and i realized who it is itself is international.
wow 😯! thanks for the votes 😊!
yessssss!!
yeah we prefer the dude who is millionaire because of his book sale on socialism🤣🤡
catherine is based.
it's amazing the shit she ate from the media.
gate
🍻
we want an empathetic, competent and responsible social democracy. bernie embodies him in the united states, but he is also a symbol of this ideology in general. it remains to find its quebec incarnation.
we have neither at the moment.
we just want bernie.
bernie sanders arrived at the most prestigious political event of the year wearing mittens made from recycled plastic and a coat he could have snatched from winners. that's what people thought was nice. especially since, in the photo, he has an air of "sti-qui-fait-frette" with which quebecers will identify.
i think that's what the world here likes. no one wants to import american politics here.
how to easily identify the guy who understands fuckall about socialism or communism
it would be worth less than 2 million. it's not even in the top 100 richest at the convention.
sacrament, not all dude
but to be honest, that slut didn't steal it at all ...
do you have an acv?
the elections are coming ...
you're white, middle class and virgin🤡
he became a millionaire with the capitalist system like everyone else it's not important that he is 1 or 2 million.
your affront to this lady of the people reveals your favoritism towards a bourgeoisie which has little reciprocity for your admiration.
dare i even say, a simplicity in the face of media manipulation, which undoubtedly colored your opinion. not for lack of intellect but of interest in the said lady.
indeed, your comment focused on the promiscuity of this individual leads me to judge your opinion as being tinged with a hint of sexism.
its political positions are quite clear, do not be afraid to admit yourself against it if this is the case. if not, please approach it by these moral and political positions, rather than by its lack of decorum or by some supposed infatuation with the pleasure of the flesh. it does not seem to me to be of any diplomatic interest.
of course, you are free from thought. i wish you a good day.
best regards, lil john.
whoops.
we should all vote for hugo girard because at least that way we would have a strong leader
the elections are coming, but the caq still has significant support, which, i believe, will enable it to win the next elections.
it works well, he is not proposing to abolish the capitalist system.
genius.
thank you ti-jean
i mean he clearly seems more honest than the others but i think too often we say tax the rich but the thing is, it's the middle class that gets screwed. because if the rich get taxed too much, they move, it's that simple ...
do you really think that if americans raise taxes on the rich they'll move out of the country?
well it's like that in quebec, if you make more than $ 500 a year the canadian government and sth combined take 53% of your income. on the other hand, the tax on dividends is much lower. in short, the people who own the corporations or part of them pay almost no taxes.
it is the same in the states but the middle class of the states is being strangled less.
also we must consider the national debt. we are lucky in canada, the debt is almost 2400 billion but those of the states of more than 27 trillion which is absolutely staggering.
in short, the salary tax of the pierre karl peladeau genre is even 53% like everyone in the world which makes 500 thousand and more, but since it owns several companies, it collects a percentage of the profits of those who are drastically less taxed. so in the end these taxes are not that high ...
worse what is bernie doing here?
bin as i wrote if he increases the taxes of the wages of the millionaires that does not change anything.
if he increases dividend taxes will they base their companies in another country and keep the same operations but pay income taxes to another country?
honestly i can't be any clearer if you still don't get it you should maybe take an economics class or two before complaining about socialist bullshit like socialism isn't literally the basis of all fascist regimes ever.
entk this is my last answer good evening brother.
ok bye.
in return:
citizen: there are a lot of inconsistencies and contradictions in the guidelines.
editor: bennn yes you did your research you hen! it's satanic pedophiles of 5g that's ca lolol
the american who wants to import her tank is going to be in tabarnac.
it seems that many people do not understand that to live in society, with all the enormous advantages that this entails, you have to sacrifice a little of your individual freedoms.
those who only want the advantages of social life and none of the disadvantages are literally parasites.
[deleted]
honestly, we must stop blaming the conspirators for our situation, the majority of transmissions are made by non-conspirators.
freedom estiiii. tokébek icitte libarté
the government just have to do their job if they don't want me to eat my caca!
jesus, there are people not happy here
it's almost that.
government should ban cordless bungee ...: p
personally, i find it funny that the conspirators are anti-masks. before the pandemic, conspiracies were about easy recognition and the need to cover your face in public so as not to be recognized.
but there, as soon as the masks are compulsory, the conspirators rise up against that ... and insist on putting their faces everywhere in the cameras.
"do your research" .... hahahah
the difference is that apart from legault, i don't know anyone who eats poo.
steps outside after 8 p.m. to have peace on the other hand? i took it every day.
surely i forgot to laugh.
but whatever, here's another good one. choose your clan:
if you follow the government rules: sheep
if you have a negative opinion of government initiatives: conspiracy
we cry for our freedom, but between quebecers we are gnawing on the internet. do you believe in government decisions? well you're a suckling sheep! if you don't like them, be careful, you're nothing but a conspiratorial two of spades who deserves to take a ride on the electric chair. it is not the government that takes away our freedom, it is all the tiresome people who are not able to accept the opinion of another person. believe it or not, i don't care, but let me think what i want and don't call me names. yes, there are some follies that are made and that are absurd, but covid has killed respect for everyone's freedom of opinion. it's everyone for himself. anyway, i'm probably the most aunt in history to be on facebook with matante ghislaine or kevin and read on a spotted page that they are pissing each other off.
the rise of coprophages
\*this.
the worst part is that i think there are those who would do it for real, just to send a message ...
seriously. like who takes walks at 8am in the winter? the only ones who are out at 8:05 am in january have a valid reason (ie work / walking the dog, etc)
i don't necessarily think it's going to make a big difference, but it's a bit of whining for the sake of whining.
it's the food cartel telling us poop isn't good for us just to make more money. wake up sheep !!!
huh? context?
conspiracy: masculine name, said of a person who does not support an arbitrary police state at the level of military occupation
if it was all mine, i would make them all stop and i would screw all of this to you in prison camps.
legault:
“tomorrow everyone will squeal at the bottom of the champlain bridge. if no one is alive we can't have new cases ”
everyone on this sub:
"just do what legault says osti conspiratorial is a recommendation of public health"
i'm sure some losers would eat shit and walk on all fours if the government told them too
citizen: once i went to costco and someone broke the 2m fec, i have the right to go to the south and to meet my sister at christmas. we pay attention.
in return:
citizen: at first they said the masks were not necessary. and there, 4 months later, they made masks mandatory! it is an inconsistency.
redditor: it's not an inconsistency. this is a change based on new data.
citizen: they said christmas dinners will be allowed. and there, 3 weeks later (when the case curve exploded) they banned suppers! it is an inconsistency.
redditor: it's not an inconsistency. this is a change based on new data.
--------------------------------------
also, yes there are inconsistencies, but that doesn't mean you can't use your head.
i have often read people here justifying their christmas party because people have the right to travel to the south.
"the government crashes on a, so i have the right to do xyz".
hahah esti it was good this one.
this story there, it will remain in the anal of r / québec
what !? what did i miss?
tabarnak
freedom ends where others' freedom begins
> a little
> parasites
ok mr. 52k karma. i have the impression that your routine has not changed bein bein.
average editor doesn't come out so i guess that makes sense lol
phew!
what bugs me the most is the constant narrative that they release you the second you question a government decision, without even giving your opinion:
* oh if you question so you're a conspirator. since you are a conspirator you are therefore an idiot, so i don't need to make my point and i can happily leave the conversation by slapping myself on the back and telling me that i won *
people are frustrated and need to let off steam. the government tells them that the bad guys responsible for the crisis are the "conspirators", a category that ranges from illuminated qanon believing covid to be an effect of 5g to people who criticize the government measures in anything even if they obey them and even recently the opposition mps who do their job of criticizing government policies. so people let off steam by spewing their hatred on their fellow citizens who criticize the government with the blessing of the government which is very happy thus to divert attention and to become blameworthy for its management of the crisis.
there is another epidemic underway at the moment in quebec, an epidemic of contempt and hatred towards our own fellow citizens, an epidemic encouraged and maintained by our government, which wants to make the unity of the majority by varying from the minority.
the daily number of cases is double the number of conspirators in quebec. not very hard to beat.
> honestly, we must stop blaming the conspirators for our situation
isn't anyone saying our situation is the conspirator's fault?
the conspirators, anti-masks, covidots etc. make our situation worse.
but no one says it's only their fault?
the government leaves schools open, so it is acceptable for me to eat caca and throw it on others.
unfortunately yes
conspiracy: said of someone who persuades himself and wants to persuade others that those in power (political or otherwise) practice the conspiracy of silence to hide truths or control conscience.
basically, a person with mental problems; go get help it's serious.
quebec suicide prevention line: 1 866 appelle (277-3553).
this service is available everywhere in quebec, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day.
tools are also available to quebecers on the commentparlerdusuicide.com website.
imprison those who take walks at 8:30 p.m. or those who eat poo?
so it's quite innocent as a comparison ... we're doing this to save lives.
any excuse is good to frener your sister ein my francois?
the police checked me on my way to work during curfew. there were 2 policemen in the vehicle. neither was wearing a mask.
laws are for the common people.
yeah, pretty good argument, but my favorite inconsistencies are those of, say, museums, the saq which will remain open as long as there is a citizen living in quebec, and the sqdc which is now an essential service.
these state-owned enterprises all have door-to-door delivery services but are open. it's not super believable.
but hey i speak for the sake of speaking, i'm a big freak confined to death since march.
they didn't say the mask wasn't needed, they said it was a bad idea that was going to make the situation worse.
[deleted]
> citizen: at first they said that the masks were not necessary. and there, 4 months later, they made masks mandatory! it is an inconsistency.
you give them a lot of money, especially since masks were used in many places around the world from the start of the pandemic and scientific evidence had existed for years.
if they had been transparent they could have said, “we know that masks can help but we want to ensure that the stocks available are for the health network and not for citizens. "
we can talk about the covid application too.
at the beginning: don't download it, it's a waste, we will have something better.
a few months later: please download justin's app. we have the same data / specs on the application as a few months ago but since we are not able to make a better one we changed our mind.
it's not an inconsistency, it's incompetence and lies. we did not discourage the use of masks because of "data" but because there was a lack of them and we did not want people to garoch on the ... non-existent masks. if you can't buy it because it's missing, why not just tell the truth? and since then, the government has practically failed from a to z. there's just the q that still works.
so even the people of toronto don't like toronto? haha
she in the lower right hurts.
long live quebec?
still want to seperate * for the last graph for qc
i don't catch the "what is it" for quebec and alcohol
i don't want to hate too much but it's the kind of thing with so many easy / inaccurate generalizations that in the long run, it ends up dumbing us down and harming us in our debates.
the american debates are full of labels and intellectual botching, i hope that we will not start doing too much either.
even nunavut forgets that manitoba exists?
it is not false!
*despises literally everyone*
what's a manitoba, stu a beer?
the quebec hating on montreal made me lol
yeah ... i don't really know what to say
jvote for the "hates montreal" model with mtl and laval islands in blue
what’s manitoba
damn... 9/9 !
i am pretty sure that quebec wants to separate more than alberta and i have the impression that it is canada which hates quebec rather than quebec which hates canada.
the eighth killed me xd
these ways of dividing canada ... could divide canada ...
might i add:
québec: canadian culture
rest of canada: american culture
nothing better than english canada to divide canada;)
ehh, not sure that we are silent there, us ...
no one east of thunder bay has heard of manitoba
balkanization when?
love the montreal one. very true lmao.
used to want to separate? i think quebec still wants to separate
the one on the hatred of roc and alberta is on point xd
newfoundland voted no once, then yes the second time ...
i don't know it's who decided to divide like that, but it's literally bs ...
[the only way to separate canada] (
it's almost impossible to read because the image is super large when you zoom.
what's the matter? there are literally 4 maps based on quebec, and one which is super ambiguous.
y want to keep canadian unity, but then make maps like that. wtf, why?
[deleted]
same thing for montreal it seems ... yet montrealers are generally in love with their city
confirmed. and us who lived just outside of it more so.
i dont hate our city, but i love the fact that everyone hates us.
its the source of our power. the pure hate from the rest of canada
in one of the canadian subreddit a guy was trying to convince me that living in toronto to get a $ 200,000 job to afford a house no class at $ 1.3m with payments like $ 6000 per month is worth it. you have to believe that the world of toronto knows nothing else.
i had a pang in my heart seeing this
free!
without potholes
drunk!
the separatist movement is much stronger in quebec than in alberta
at 32%, do you still call it “still wants”?
well, yes, the majority no even if it remains close.
nope.
this is the impression you have on / r / quebec and in your bubble of friends, not reality.
*a 27 to 34% minority still want to seperate as of december 2020. they are allowed to dream.
everyone's crying out about the legal drinking age, basically.
"what is a legal drinking age?" "
so i'm going against the tide but i'm soon 35 and i've been carded 3 or 4 times at the saq for a year, awarded i'm younger, but still. i once told the nice lady that i was, indeed, soon 35 years old and she told me that the legal age of sale in saq was 25 years. i'm not talking about our friends the convenience stores.
it's also a cultural reference: it's a phrase in a very famous talking heads song, so sometimes used in conversations in english (source: i'm a hybrid).
[deleted]
questioning the government's management of the crisis = conspiracy?
what's the conspiracy theory in there? conspiratorial that would be to say that covid was created to exterminate the elderly to counter overpopulation, or to be anti-vaccine. but to say that the government's measures are inconsistent and excessive has absolutely nothing to do with being “conspiratorial”.
i think yesterday's press briefing was the breaking point of several ...
i think everyone expected the curfew to end and the government has "live long enough to become the villain".
in fact, i do not believe that it is necessarily a conspiracy, but that it is the logic behind the decisions of the government which is called into question.
everyone deprives themselves, takes short walks at -15 ° c with their friends, prevents themselves from seeing people out of respect for instructions or for fear of receiving fines, stays at home at 8 p.m., but on the other hand it is okay that religious minorities can have indoor gatherings of 100 people or less.
where is the logic in that? was this decision made because god protects people from covid (/ s)? we are thrown off this measure without scientifically valid justification because there is obviously none.
have we forgotten the [famous patient 31] ( in south korea who alone was responsible of several thousand cases last year following his visit to a church?
i would also like to know if they plan to keep the curfew during the summer. we have no information on this. ultimately i can always understand that in the spring that there is one, but i would find it completely absurd that they keep it for this summer.
it would be a mistake to assume that reddit quebec is a monolithic block of thoughts. what i can say on the other hand is that i see more and more sarcasm, cynicism, disgust and bad faith. i think there are reasons to be at their wit's end with government, especially their general lack of transparency, but the related comments that i sometimes see go through make me more discouraged than the measures themselves.
i defended the government until they said "100 people in places of worship".
cool, the clerics must have the party but i have a $ 10,000 ticket if i have a fire outside our house with 2-3 people? yeah right.
[deleted]
people have to stop using the term "conspiracy", it's completely stupid to discredit anyone who uses critical thinking and thinks outside the pre-established spectrum of the media ...
conspiracy does not equal a generalized disgust ...
do you find it normal to be able to go pray to a fucking god who anyway chalice nothing and who does not exist? with 100 strangers from several different bubbles?
officially in criss
this is what i have also noticed for about a week or two, with the variants and the curfew it looks like the world is afterwards on the top.
i'll be back in 2-3 weeks to see how the world is doing.
or do you see conspiracies?
because we're sick of the curfew?
and this time it will not be enough to call conspiracists and close the door, you will have to justify your attack
"criticism is conspirationnisme !!!"
ah, the fragility and the inability to debate, it's pretty incredible.
i would say not conspiratorial but extremely anti-measures. i wonder if there is no back brigading on the other hand.
government is like wikipedia, * [citation needed] *
so if you consider that to question the decisions of the government is to be a conspirator then yes indeed this sub is made a conspirator. for my part, i find that this questioning is healthy and that around here we used to often agree (not all the time, you shouldn't kid ourselves) with legault. i'm sorry, but freedom of thought is a two-way street so in the end all the better for democracy. i think the r / quebecers are more skeptical of the government's action vis-à-vis the virus than the virus itself. as for me, i am delighted that we can question the measures in the public debate beyond the left-right divide because if we were all 100% in agreement with legault, it would be a long time since we would have a curfew at 6 p.m. with 2k cases per day
this kind of meme, even if it's just a meme, does not help the atmosphere that has reigned here for the past few weeks. it never helps to put a caricature label on people who don't think like you. even in joke.
as much as the people who criticize the government are not necessarily conspirators (even though it is a minority of comments that support this and they are generally negavoted), the people who are pro-measures are not sheep supporting the government. imposition of a dictatorship signed françois legault. there is a whole spectrum of positions between the two. what is unfortunate is that i have seen several times comments of this last type, or similar to it, being posivotated slightly on this sub.
man, i have people who seriously tell me, on this subreddit, that covid is okay, that the government is lying about the numbers, that no health measure has proven its usefulness, etc.
i said this in another thread but facebook is overflowing. many of the comments are of the caliber of what we see on the tva nouvelles threads.
on the other hand - i'm starting to lose hope a bit. even if cases are down to half of what they were before the october lockdown, we can't even hope for the curfew to be lifted. we can't even hope to go see friends. we don't even know what the target is, what the approximate timeline is. we are in nothingness. worse that's the hardest part.
i'm a hermit by nature, but even i am starting to find it heavy. i can't wait to go see my friends and have a beer and eat a pizza while playing d&d.
quite the contrary. the sub was much too complacent in front of the government (myself included) and there we question more, especially on the lack of transparency and the decisions which concern more politics and favoritism (ok cinemas but not the plays, 100 people from a church but no hockey games etc.).
i find that most of the time it is done with respect and that the discussions are good.
if you think that questioning and wanting to discuss the merits of government decisions is to be a conspiratorist, well i'm not sure what to tell you. take another break i guess.
i like the response of people when we dare to criticize the government with arguments based on facts that we are conspirators.
the term with the wide back is cursed.
we can clearly see the mentality of caq apologists and containment fanatics: any criticism of the government, no matter how it is argued, equals "conspiracy".
i've seen it coming for months. there are clearly some people who are not able to support logical arguments and need intellectual shortcuts in the form of labels. they put a label on someone and suddenly they justify dismissing everything they say out of hand.
"conspirators criticize the government so if you criticize the government you are a conspiratorial ... no i will not listen to you, i will not listen to the conspirators!"
without accusing the caq of being an authoritarian regime, this mentality is exactly the same as that used by authoritarian regimes to maintain power, the mentality aimed at discrediting any criticism of the regime. it's disheartening how easily people fall into this mentality.
lol so it's not just me
dare not mention the variants here except if it's to say it's hogwash, you're going to lose all the reddit karma you've accumulated
lol everyone is involved in the circle-jerk and the counter-circle-jerk. the majority of opinions on this sub are reasonable.
* rit en intraverti *
i keep repeating that the actions are not precise enough. we should approach the issue in a more comprehensive way, that is to say that we should close the forests around mont-tremblant and sainte-adèle and, at the same time, prohibit birds from flying away.
we should also reverse the course of the st. lawrence and ban fish swimming. we must also seriously reconsider whether we should continue to develop the port of trois-rivières; after all, we are building new pathways for the virus to reach us. if even that is not enough, there remains the last resort, namely the establishment of breakwaters at the border of the country, which will be responsible for capturing the russian, german, swedish version, etc. virus, according to the imagination of those in power.
ah yes, not swallow all the irrational silliness of the government = conspiracy.
classic, like not voting qs = alt-right i guess? or call everyone a racist.
the internet is fucking heavy.
when we write that public health should encourage the intake of vitamin d by the entire population, we are labeled a conspiratorial. during this time. [ unies( iwar2a4qmawot7g5irs937i0lpi2-uqrpegamsi41mnejk4g22tdr46rir9mc)
are you ready for revolution ?!
bye there! it will do us good and we will be able to discuss.
you brought in the anti-le-go gang in the comments
in addition, if you want to come back when the majority of the population agrees with the caq, i have bad news for you: they will not be re-elected.
the worst part is that we have had all of fucking r quebec when most like me are fucking tired of visiting this sub, but we have nothing to do, that's just what keeps me entertained. i came maybe once a month before covid. all i have to do is come here and criticize the govt. if you are not happy with our reviews, open up a business so that i can move on and not hang around here 2-3 hours a day
this is the quebec sub on reddit ... it's about a check mark above the facebook and tva comments. the more vocal will often be the uneducated and the trolls so obviously that often sounds like shit. like another said, i come here to cheer myself up and have a little laugh.
to be tanned is to be a conspirator? so stay in your break now ...
i have never had so much hatred towards religions. i must be a conspirator.
bring out the conspiratorial scarecrow when you are not able to argue and want to continue to censor dissenting opinions ...
by dint of treating everything and its opposite of that, it is made that the world does not give a damn about this label: those who used it have abused it.
i wonder who the right will vote for. personally i am an abandoned child of on who reluctantly votes pq, but the conservative right, if it gets disgusted with the too great control of the caq (which goes against the values of the right), they vote what to the place? they r / angryupvote votes in legault?
tell me, disappointed caquists, what's your next vote? and the caquist sovereignists, are you going back to the pq?
i really don't hope to see a liberal rise because of the pandemic
i get downvoted every time i comment on this reddit. i even know if i am quebecois gone there
glad to see that i'm not the only one to see it.
solution: make a private sub or you can all circlejerk in the same direction.
the post shouts "i see something i don't agree with so he's a conspirator"
i know that you are paranoid toutte su moé.
🤣🤣🤣
huh? when?
put in, thanks for the idea.
phew, it's good to see that i'm not the only one to see that!
i know it's hard, but please don't get into wacky theories. it will just make the problem longer. it's okay to challenge the government, but at the end of the day, it's a good idea to row in the same direction.
don't worry, when all this is going to be over, journalists and parliamentarians will be investigating the management of the pandemic for years. we will discover more or less encouraging things and we will be able to make our political decisions accordingly.
but this is not the time to make a revolution. now is the time to show solidarity.
it's more the other meme: "always has been"
a good part of the population are shills itou faque ... that does not help
beu-bye.
and unfortunately, this sub allows for once to extrapolate the state of mental health of the province as a whole.
we feel that you are really docile! i don't want to see you take off your mask this summer during your little hike!
the next step is to teach them that it is piastre and not coin.
i'll have to post one of these four to ask you for your favorite insults / curses, apart from * tabarnak cuddly ostia * i'm not well informed.
i'm english but i love whatever this is.
ahah, don't forget also the farted accent that we're trying to add (yes, i'm french)
stg, the word is passed in the previous province that we laughed at them for that because it makes an end osti that i did not hear a french fuck up tabarnack that el criss.
[calice](
such ! if they are unable to pronounce it like the world, let them refrain from using it.
and those who say "i pronounce it what i want" ughhhhhh
kayak
kayacle
mdr 😂😂
that way is just so much more fun to say tho
there are good explanations in the movie [bon cop bad cop] ( if you haven't seen it. even if it is more recommended for english speakers, it is a classic.
[removed]
do you pronounce the "r"? i'm curious, because i've always heard and said "piasse", but maybe it's regional.
supporting evidence:
[  
[
also, my parents are haitians and say the word "piastre" with all the consonants, so the word pronounced "piastre" survives in the west indies :)
saint sacrament of ostie de viarge, batinsse de criss ...
there are so many.
bou'd'viarge
i present to you [the best site on the internet] (
tripod criss
(from louisiane) piraque, caouenne, liche-cul, gargoyle my balls, drags my seeds, jarniedieu, cursed, junk, runner, calard, bitaco, filth, much more
"if my dog had your face, i'd shave his ass and take him for a walk."
my ciboæëèw !!!!
i like the osti version of christ of tabarnak cuddly better
running grape ostia
sans-genie, suck-la-cenne, platform manager, cabochon, face-to-spank-in.
a little shitty shit from the chalice
tabarnacriss, tabarfuck, siboire, sacrament, sacracaliss ...
when your accent attempt is unsuccessful, it is generally because you are missing two essential characteristics of the quebec accent:
- [affrication] ( du t (_ts_) and du d (_dz_) when they are in front of the i and the u ("you" is pronounced _tsu_, for example, "sunday" becomes _dzimanche_)
- the addition of the pronoun "tu" (_tsu _...) after the verb to form the interrogative sentences, even (especially) those which are not conjugated in the second person singular: do you want a beer? do you order pizza? did you forget my bag at your place? is it raining already? do you want to come with us?
there are obviously other characteristics, but if you practice these two, you can imitate a quebec accent that other french people will be jealous of!
i agree, very good explanation.
i pronounce as it is that i want my little lady
banished forever.
not just for this comment, but for the other 10 insults.
feel better now that you posted it 10 times today ? you might need help...
quebec is the shit*
it is pronounced piasse but spelled piastre.
it is like the t which disappears at the end of communist and the r which disappears at the end of the tree but put together.
that depends on my humor.
if you hear the 'r' it's because your hash is very expensive 'sti
> batinsse
what? it's new to me.
st-frandon from crackarnak!
oh. my. god. this site is a nuclear weapon
and:
"dog meat of little jesus of calvary of calvary of saint-ciborium of bastard of holy-sacrament of ciborium of cibolac of boswell of sacréfice of chives of chive end of iarge of eater of custard mash of batince of cimonaque of calvince of carrion of jesus of plaster stole of holy buttocks of geritole of mautadit of saint-ciarge of child of female dog of christie of mosus of astie of saint-cimonaque of cibole of calvinouche of crucifix of cuddly of cuddly sacrament de bine de maudit de torrieux de caltor. "
i don't know who made this site but where is the text-to-speech?
damn, it wouldn't be worse to be able to launch a robotic path
whoever did this deserves a nobel prize
i had written a program that did this on a commodore 64 at the time. 1000 data ciboire, cibolac, crisse, etc. i had used léandre bergeron's dictionary for the coronation list, since i was quite uneducated in the matter.
oh yes ! i had fallen on "holy buttocks of virgins"! i keep the site under the elbow, thank you!
i may have needed lorem ipsum for my demo sites for my clients
i note !
i can hear the commentary and it makes me laugh!
face-to-face spanking is awesome!
do these things merge into one more?
tabarcul
what did he say? i can’t help but be curious.
that's all explained [here] (
i have always pronounced the two r's in "trees ..."
a taste of how people would react to the containment rules.
[for those who don't know his] (
i had to google it to see worse ... tabarnak xd haha
[à propos...](
this event comes up often as an example of "* what not to do *" in our event creation courses haha
they entered as children ...
they left as adults.
[cocothon2014ont'oublierajamais] (
the 2014 cocothon is a good proof of ...... i don't know, i'm lacking in words! 😁
i found :
[
cottons.
a moment in our history
laval ...
i thought it referred to the parody video but i find it more on youtube ...
imagine being a parent who sees another parent stealing your child's eggs .... i taste like blood
[deleted]
that is a good granny!
\+1
others who make anti-legault / caq or anti-counter-covid policies grandma, take note.
there are people who flop when they realize that the world does not revolve around their waves
the pandemic is as well managed as the laval cocothon.
disappointment and ** anger **
i did the same! i can't believe how the human can look thick hahah
there was no other seems to me. the world is too thick and they don't know how to manage themselves.
hahaha oh my goooood
this is the modern woodstock of howto fail vent planning
technique for leisure?
vietnam from quebec
a good proof that laval exists.
conthon
i remember
something smart shouldn't have been expected in laval lol
that one? 
check other comments
or, there are people who live all their fantasy through their children
pretty sure the cocothon was just volunteers with plastic eggs in the park.
parents and children just weren't able to wait or make the decision that it was too crowded and that maybe they should find something else to do that sunday morning.
or the manseau festival
yes haha
a good proof that we live in a society where laval exists
big-colon-a-thon
not bad sure that the reptilians and the illuminati were connected to the cocothon.
wait, were people killing each other and there wasn't even chocolate?
my daughter was volunteering for the cocothon (through the laval international school), and it really happened like that. plus, they served hotdogs, but they were cold because they didn't have enough time to heat them up.
it makes her a good anecdote to tell when she does interviews.
or the rock fest
wow we are in the same technique
we live in a society
the cocothon was an inside job.
no. they had paid $ 3 for a plastic egg cocothon that started at noon.
they arrived at 9:30 am and were frustrated with the wait. at noon, the organizers were not ready, and the laval residents launched the assault.
there are several cegeps that offer the program. i was at cégep saint-laurent, i graduated last year.
bush did 9/11
this is how it will be told in the history books.
ah me, i'm in the old mtl, it would have been funny that we were in the same class
the story is told by the winners ... there was no winner that day.
i think it's been a while since there had been a good bye bye as well. a good way to end 2020!
they were strong on pku, a bit too much in my opinion. i'm saying that as a guy who didn't touch those bonuses.
an instant classic
the flash was good but i think i had a bigger laugh at the police racial profiling skit and the kevin parent lemonade skit.
i am one of the old generation z (22 years old) so the grumpy i was too young when it happened in 2004. so i couldn't really get into the joke because i don't know that):
edith: well that's it, i get negotiated because i'm too young to have looked at the grumpy in 2004.
the 10/10 field shotgun
the racial profiling training skit was too good. the policeman who realizes after three attempts, "nothing has been done ... i don't do anything!" holy shit, what a great way to make people understand this issue.
hmm not worse but i laughed much more at the sketch of the conspirators
this sketch was absolutely perfect beautiful.
agacepésie.com. it was the best of the whole skit i think.
i didn't really understand pcu bashing honestly. it was a good thing and it saved a lot of people. what was the alternative, letting people die of hunger to prevent a small minority from possibly abusing it?
worse the beating against sexual diversity in od ... i wanted to answer '' ok boomer '' a little.
otherwise it was fine, although i definitely never can figure out all the references lol.
i liked the fact that they did a sketch on the blue basket. it was so disappointing as a project.
for me it was kevin parent's lemonade. i spat my beer so much.
excellent byebye this year, he did a lot of good!
i wish every province did a bye bye. unfiltered solid damn good humour.    poche canada was effing funny.  well done radiocanada.
i loved the profiling skit, but honestly it was all good!
i don't understand the hype on this show
for such a dark year, i found this bye bye particularly positive!
criss by claude legault, can you stop being good at everything he does ?! if it continues like this we'll find out he's the greatest serial killer of all time.
i agree!
there was a lot of stock this year so it was better to make us a good one, and i am not completely disappointed
you think it was good! i found it pocket this year
i am okay. the character begins by paying his rent and having his tanks repaired. these are basic needs. then he buys cossins but in there you have a playstation. ok, the guy is in lockdown and it's funny that he buys a way to have fun on his own at home? makes me think of boomers bitching that students have smart phones. and after all, the secondary goal after meeting people's basic needs was to keep the economy going. unfortunately, buying cossins is what makes our system work. anyway the whole thing made me think a little too much about people who did not lose their income during the pandemic worrying that less fortunate people "take advantage" of their safety net.
personally i found the sketch on the pcu excellent, even if it didn't affect me (i was not entitled to it). the chorus, the lyrics, the beat of the toune, the decor / costumes ...
not quite pcu, but i found the skit where trudeau just prints stupid money. i think it was the worst skit. they could have laughed at his press conferences and his pocket french (but he is not pocket the way it was presented in their sketch) and sentences that mean nothing, but maybe they were too scared. imitate infoman. but to just pretend he's cave and thinks printing money is magic, it was pocket-friendly.
i touched pku at the start of the pandemic and i thought it was funny.
it was actually spot on.... my girlfriend technically qualifies because she fits in: she used to have a job, made at least 5k (barely above it), been fired because of covid. 
she's been on pcu since... it's more money than she ever had. she paid her credit card, then bought a massive couch, now we're using it to save up to buy a house. my job covers the needs for both of us. we saved enough for tax season... 
technically, she's 100% in her right to get it. we still feel like it's way too much money to cover her needs.
the last line adjusted the picture quite a bit, "i hope i don't have to pay back"
it was funny in criss but it made me sad this sketch there.
firstly because the bougons were really good and it could have existed, and secondly the feeling of old that i took when i saw mao ... i hadn't realized that it had been so long since it played out
police profiling has been my favorite, really heartbreaking skit. on another note, shoutout to mehdi, incredible performance this year!
lol! the sketch of the quebec token in a program produced by blacks.
my beer yesterday had a little something
i loved the racial profiling skit haha
and the police commander's tchuips at the end, really a nice little touch
i need someone to explain the reference to kévin parent to me. me and my girlfriend we found the gag funny, but seen that we did not hear about him once on the news or had the impression to miss out on a part of the punch
i'm in the same boat. the skit was only funny for people who knew the bougons. i have the impression that it was more a "haha the bougons" than "haha the sketch".
i'm 17 years old but a few years ago i listened to the entire les bougon series and it's really good, i recommend it.
i still strongly recommend the series, even if it is a bit old now. the bougons are really good.
i was too young to listen to the grumpy back in 2004 too (i was like 13 but didn't understand all the subtleties) but i slammed all the episodes last spring and it aged well! it's really funny and the posts and topics are still very current. i recommend it to you!
they released a movie in 2016
but the series grumbles, it's worth it. [it's just 3 seasons] ( it's a quebec classic, like the office can be in states / uk.
the series is available on tou.tv if you want to see it
i didn't know them either (i'm 21) but it reminded me of trailer park boys.
it's easy to find on youtube, the first season is excellent.
me jte upvote big.
let's see stop crying with your edit, it's not even 5 years since the movie about the buttons was released.
i really found the end of the sketch super interesting. not at all what i expected.
the gift at the end was perfect
i liked it too! i only found it a little ironic that it was this actor who gave the training considering the contradiction that there had been as long as squad 99
my number 2 but so good too that i give it to you
he was fine but when mm simplistic i think i wish they'd gotten picked up more.
georges laraque who appears, i was cramped 😂
i changed my tires on friday because i had an oil change to do so i said to myself "as long as i am there".
2 feet of snow fell in the saguenay during the last 24 hours ...
kevun come on, let's go to the laval crossroads with my chariot
and that's why you're waiting for the end of april / the beginning of may.
it's even too much tank for my commons transporter ass to understand.
never change your tires in march. it's always going to have at least one snowy day in april.
100%
daniel tillotson! i love its content, very underated.
i live in bsl / gaspésie, i never change my tires before at least mid-april, otherwise i am sure to pick up where the fans snow.
lol!! so accurate
yep. it is supposed to snow this week. i had tied my hammock last week.
i'm waiting for the weekend to do that, summer tires in the snow are not that good.
i wanted to do this before but i suspected we would have snow.
nice plate!
beautiful racing car my man
the covid remains there on the tires.
source: the next door neighbor editorial.
typical of that part of the world, mainly a winter swamp land. you figure their ancestors would have the intelligence and patience to go further south...lol
even the garage torque not the wheels. zip zip pis t golden
i'm sorry, but in saguenay, if you turn them into bitters, you run after trouble ...
it's not like the post storm is something new ...
in march, it's just a joke
in april, don't take a thread
in may, do what you like.
you're not done, there will be more on thursday!
if you're telecommuting, it's not that bad.
be careful!
yack not carrefour laval, mayvais memories ...
yeah no mercy! if it happens to you every year, it's you who hasn't learned something
as they say, "in april, don't take it easy ..."
at the beginning of may it is exaggerated. it wears out winter tires for nothing.
anyway, albertins who drive audi a4s do not change their tires themselves, in their driveway, on a slope ...
snow
if you have summer tires, it's not ideal. with all-season tires, it's not that bad even if it snows a little.
i always torque my wheels after a couple of km following a tire change, and luckily i'm doing this because last year the garage forgot to do it. flacafloc on the metropolitan, it stirred like in a popcorn machine, i was not tripping in plaster p'tit jesus. luckily i'm lazy and let my torque wrench hang out in the tank.
5 minutes later i was rolling as smooth as a cloud.
that's why i change my tires and my oil myself, when you go off and your wheel starts to shake and the nuts are all soggy, or you find oil in your driveway after the "pros" have changed it, you manage to do it yourself the right way.
it must not have a zip zip
if you go to a garage where they don't twist the wheels, change the garage before they do an oil change instead of an oil change. i had my tires changed this winter at the center of the tire at costco and they put me back after 40km to re-torch them.
i don't like changing wheel studs.
> even the garage torque not the wheels.
does it have to do with tomás de torquemada, the grand inquisitor?
we don't know about the pole storm here! i don't know at all what it means but it must fall into please
i have been staying in montreal for a couple of years. the snow ends at the beginning of april here but before, when i was in quebec, you could be sure to have a mini plank that pisses off at the end of april. it was falling all the time during the end-of-term exams.
i would rather say, "in may, you can get naked esti, yé!" "
until pentecost, keep your coat
it really depends on the region where you live.
you better wear out your tires than wear out your bumper
summer tires are also safer when it's above 7 degrees, especially in the rain. i'm in the outaouais and i don't regret my summer tires.
people seem to think that winter tires are safer. i prefer to ride safe for many days and less safe during the day in april when there is snow than the other way around.
* s4 with a ti aileron for maximum downforce on your sedan.
torque the wheels we're talking about screwing the bolts diagonally, right?
you use an impact to remove the wheels, you use a torque wrench to put them back.
you must have it without knowing it. it is one of the last snows. snow falling diagonally sticks to the posts because it is starting to get hot.
they should also be screwed tight enough.
there are tools for that. this is the click we hear in the video.
[deleted]
thank you saguenay for this sharing which was lacking in my culture
are there not the storms of the crows?
that's what i thought. sometimes when i torques too much my brakes are worse.
do you have a store recommendation where to buy this tool? other than ct i am not familiar with car tools.
you know when you tell yourself that it will be easy because you have the right to your notes ... except that the teacher has to adjust her questions accordingly
question 1: what is your name?
tabarnak
for real, the exams are easy, but listening to the course is the hardest thing with the internet and your phone nearby
my teacher has decided to take the final exam in sequential mode (not the right to change his answers) i stress in criss
aha help i got ass notes
to be honest, this session (bac), i really have the impression that my most used aptitude is that of seeking information ... understanding and deduction seem to be put to one side ... c ' is a bit of a shame because it was already a problem in general for several years ... i suppose it is the internet, but we know less things by heart and we know more how to find information .. in itself c 'is useful, yes ok, but it is more difficult to make sure that the pupils make the connections between the concepts ...
edit: the fôtes
damn you summed up my high school, my first cegep session in the same lmao
for my stats exam, i did all of the topic-related questions in the textbook and thought i was ready but got 42%. lol fml.
1st question: paul has 2 dogs, 4 cats and 3 hens, one of which has lost a leg.
how long does it take paul to make the paté a ricardo recipe if marie brought him jéribouine instead of tomatoes?
what do you think of the accusations of widespread cheating? (reference the student who wants to cancel the rating r)
have you adjusted your assessment accordingly?
ctrl-f
you can be the hero of your cohort by taking all the teacher's pdf and joining them in a mega pdf. share the document with a title like "coursx \ _mega \ _document \ _ctrl \ _f \ _op.pdf" and save everyone a lot of time on exam day.
not applicable for teachers who have enough head to copy images in their pdf instead of having clear text :(
hilarious, first time i see this format i love it
our cégep has decided to take the exams in person at 1/2 or 1/3 of the capacity of the premises.
notrenprof asks us to take a video for the duration of the exam.
question 2: with the result obtained in question # 1, what is ....
at least you didn't have it in the knee
i finished my baccalaureate in engineering in december just before the march pandemic. so glad i didn't have to manage the study under these conditions. unbelievable.
ah what luck lol
me 15 minutes ago on my exam itil 4
i spent but a mini osti panic attack to read the questions!
for me it's already over 🤷🏽
man, school is well over.
* laugh in person who has a philosophy teacher who does not like faique technology who has to do his exam on the spot and study like a real person *
we did remote exams throughout the session with right to grades and almost all end-of-session exams are done at cegep ... in the middle of the red zone ... and without right to grades. i wasn't prepared to have to memorize all of my material because the whole session didn't work out like that, and now i have to memorize everything in the space of two weeks through assignments. it's fun.
qq1 can do this to me even by removing only "because it is done remotely" please
thank you
people who are still at school, how do they make sure that you are not on facetime to give you the answers to each other?
it's been 4 years since i did my baccalaureate in computer science remotely with laval university. i am used to. the exams are still done in a supervised room, on the other hand ... in amos, although i am the only one who takes the exam and i live in val-d'or. mongolian administration ...
when you're entitled to your grades, it's a trap. 😂
as a cegep teacher, i admit that i did not adjust my questions accordingly. many still fail because they don't do the exercises * precisely * because they have access to the notes and the manual. also, they think you don't realize it when they use photomath.
when i did my technique 3-4 years ago, one of our teachers let us use our notes / notebook, the average was 45-50 ... the worst was lessons in the last year of the program. my r rating to boost with these lessons i had super good grades.
i have a teacher who did just that and the average of our intra exam was 45%. the first red flag was when we logged into the zoom for instructions and said, "you won't have time to cheat because the exam is way too long for that."
we still managed to chip away at each other by complaining enough (rightly so), and the average went up by 10%!
answer accepted.
here
copy your neighbor's answer.
a great practice for the office world. imagine those who don't just have the internet and the phone next door but who are at home and also have the children, the dog who wants to play, the cat who meows meow, the coinjoint (e) who also works from home and who has calls / conference calls, washing to do, shoveling when it's finally going to snow for real and you don't want to wait for the snowdrift in the plow to freeze, etc.
it is the student's responsibility to create a distraction-free working environment. easy to say, but it's necessary and obvious. the same goes for an adult working from home.
> internet and your phone nearby
already a big problem for some without covid with courses on site.
it's not very educational ....
why???
hmm not badly certain that our student asso would return solid in his teacher the pi that the exam would be done normally in recovery.
wait had to take notes !?
there is no point in knowing things by heart when in everyday life you can check them online in 2 and a half seconds.
the best questions are questions that really test whether you understand the concept, not the name of the concept and the theorems.
> i suppose it's the internet, but we know less things by heart and we know more how to find information
it's very, very, very important to know how to do that, as much if not more than just absorbing information without heart.
the students candidly admit to cheating.
i understand the young girl. i would be disappointed to be penalized for my honesty too.
how are universities going to rank if we don't use the r score? they will have to use another means. i don't know of others that are free so knowing the system i have the impression that the odds will stay.
my ratings are covid proof.
you realize that your exam is really useless and tests absolutely nothing when you can find an answer in a pdf with ctrl + f.
there are tools that allow converting pdf "images" into text. look for ocr on google. it's not always perfect, but it should save you 95% of your job.
especially if it's pdfs that you can ctrl-f in and not just scans ...
there's a floor in hell for those who put pictures instead of text in pdfs, along with serial killers and those who talk in movies.
ah, i did that during my lessons, i had a hard time sharing the pdf with my classmates given the monumental size of the pdf
know that you can refuse and that he or she will not be able to. that's the theory, but in practice, it's just less trouble to acquiesce to his request.
congratulations mike!
good rest norman.
good fucking shit. as a new comedian who makes penis jokes i'm glad to see this
who is “them”?
it's nothing against mike ward and certainly not against norm macdonald, but ward is far from the only one who can stand-up in two languages.
there is something weird about sharing a tweet that qualifies you as genius.
sugar sammy. can make standbup bilingual, to name one. but i'm so happy for mike and for this victory of freedom of expression and artistic
well, i agree that the law shouldn't prevent saying things like that, on the other hand, it should be prevented by decency and empathy.
this is a great day to be alive
joke on a trans or a muslim there, to see.
the result of 5 to 4 shows that freedom of expression is more fragile than ever. i don't know why people get excited about it like it's proof that in the end, we can say whatever we want.
[deleted]
who's 'them'? did he mean the francophones? i'm confused.
them treacher-collins syndrome peoples?
we did it norm we won against a handicapped person that we dragged into the mard !!!
ok....
go for a view
new * comedian. i'm the fun din party guy.
a tip @jungleliquor: canadian laws poorly define the boundaries between the right to privacy, libel, discrimination and the right to satire. it's not so much censorship as a big paradox. so, you have the right to laugh at your penis, the penis of someone fictitious or even someone who is a public figure in a position of power (again, look, martineau won his case against cyr) .
the others don't speak from their seed unless they have written permission. ;)
those who take offense at everything, all the time
tse, them others. the vast woke conspiracy trying to destroy the civilized world i guess? or the globalists? or the reptilians?
all of the above?
the jérémys in general?
i guess mike gotta take a hit after this announcement
[atomic mutant man-eating ants] ( if i got used to the internets
in my opinion, the commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse, which had succeeded in obtaining from the quebec court of appeal, $ 35,000 in damages for mr. gabriel.
the mother
handicapped
them, it's very common non-gender jeremy to talk about nonbinary people,
i can clearly see a point launched at its pace.
edit : /s.
ya sugar sammy but just bites quebecers there.
anyone can joke in two or more languages. but being funny is another game.
i don't think it's in that sense, it looks more like he wanted to throw flowers at mike ward.
sugar does stand-up in 4 languages ....
so norm wasn't completely in the field.
sucre is not really a joke.
his case is so complex.
1. on the one hand, why are you unable to apologize once you find out about the harm your joke is causing.
2. on the other hand, it's true that it's just joke and black humor and that censorship risks undermining the freedom of expression vital to a free society.
no. in humor, it's okay stop trying to censor.
[deleted]
well no
those who try to silence others to make their victimhood viable
i think
ask norm
i don't think he meant anyone in particular. this is very norm thing to say, if you know his kind of humor.
[deleted]
wow! i didn't think real people really had this ridiculous opinion. we learn every day.
i don't think he's very famous, in my opinion it doesn't lift
every time i think of those who take offense, it offends me
my father calls them the "anti-all" i think that's a good expression.
those who are offended every day by those who are offended, that is to say the millions of caquists, what side are they on?
we give each other legault (to find the illuminati woke)
[removed]
business as usual then?
we know..
it didn't even exist in 2016.
> but it just makes quebeckers bitcher.
not true, he also has some good new brunswick jokes.
me and my wife love this one, because it's true
have you seen his show in france? wake up is humor ...
we're easy to bitcher, what do you want?
[deleted]
this subreddit whines when employees are underpaid and whines when wages are increased.
i understand the problem is bigger, but it doesn't get resolved quickly. however, changing a salary changes quickly. it is a first step.
tse when we say "there is no shortage of manpower, there are just employers too cheap to pay their employees like everyone else". well here we are trying to regulate the shooting a little. it's not a silver bullet, but it's a step in the right direction.
the conditions are due to a lack of personnel. no staff, no conditions. the $ 15,000 is to kickstart the whole thing. i do not understand what would be the other solution? do we close hospitals in the evenings and weekends?
1. it's a first step
2. caliss $ 15,000 isn't nothing either. it's not the solution, but it's not a slap in the face either.
yes but no? if the number of nurses increases, it would help decrease osi. there is also a need to address the use that managers make of ost on a routine basis rather than as a last resort.
nobody talks about other aspects than $$$ ...
they will hire administrative agents (3,000) to complete the paperwork (non-medical) to prevent the nurse from wasting time. a nice break in wasting time!
also, they will ensure that the public will take precedence over the private for the time slots. so the good conditions in the private sector will quickly become appalling and push other nurses to return to the public network.
the $ 15k made the headlines ... but it's probably the least effective measure of the lot yet we stick to it because the media have simply decided to sticker it.
i understand the nurses' fight for their working conditions 100%, but seriously ... $ 15,000 is more than a third of my annual salary in a blue collar profession.
don't make me believe you're a poor helpless martyr when you get offered a bounty like that anyway. there are limits to hyperbolic comparisons.
ouch
this is the only possible short-term solution to stop the bleeding. they cannot invent nurses, nor give nursing certificates to people without qualifications. the idea is to keep as many as possible until a succession is ready. it's too late to prevent the situation we're in, just at least make sure it doesn't get worse.
just tossing money in the air will not solve the problem. it takes deeper changes. there is no easy shortcut to improving the situation of tso, understaffing, etc.
facilitate access to health studies with scholarships, give bonuses to those who enter the system and stay there for x number of years. my wife would like to reorient herself in health, but try to study when you just have one person going to earn a salary during that time, besides the children.
most nurses are not about the money. the nurses i know are very caring and above all are very willing to help.
what a shit comparison lol
i think that a problem that no one dares to mention and one of the major reasons why people leave the health care system, in particular in chslds. the problem of the working atmosphere.
having been in the health network for 3 years, i have noticed that female solidarity is almost non-existent, behaviors bordering on harassment are far too common. it is particularly the new employees who undergo it i believe, not necessarily new in seniority, but new to a team.
if you look at what happened with the crash training workers, they were far from welcome. there have been some articles on the subject:
[harassment and intimidation: the omerta in the health sector denounced] (
[already the end for new attendants] (
out of curiosity i asked the attendants who left their posts to take up positions in the kitchens or in housekeeping and their reason was the same: the work team and the unhealthy atmosphere.
now how to solve this problem there as a government ... i am not the one who has the solution and i doubt that it will have a simple and quick one to apply.
afterwards the government will use this carrot to excuse the lack of change.
"well, we gave them $ 15,000 and they're still not happy!"
a lame comparison but i get the gist.
i think that the only measure presented by the government that is really likely to change what is the fact that the day shifts will be offered as a priority to regular nurses and the evening / night / weekend shifts will be offered to staff. private agencies. it is the only measure that really affects quality of life and that has been in line with what nurses have been asking for for years.
i'm a little mixed on this. i do not think the comparison is correct.
shit ... i spent $ 20 on flowers for nothing.
it is one step among others according to my understanding. do you like you better than we do nothing but train future nurses by the ton without doing anything in the short term?
the plan of the frustrated of radio / facebook:
- stop vaccination
- remove restrictions
- withdraw compulsory overtime from nurses
- do not increase the salaries of nurses
either increase the sick and lower the care of the sick. in short, let the world die.
compare the conditions of nurses to those of a battered woman. oh yeah eh
in ontario they have completely stopped using private agencies to fill the public. result: most of the agencies died and the nurses had no choice to return to the public.
but hey, the conditions of the ontario public are better than here ... the $ 15,000 is a good start.
my understanding of the problem (from the top of my platform) is that nurses prefer to work part-time because they're going to have to do osi anyway. what i would like to know is: is a nurse considered overtime as soon as she exceeds 20 hours per week or from 40 hours? because if this is the first case, i totally understand them to stay part-time, it is much more advantageous for them. i expect to be negotiated but if anyone can answer me, i would appreciate it! thank you!
i know several people from latin america who are nurses but here they are asked more for studies to be able to work as nurses.
they work as attendants ...
not sure, if there are enough nurses coming back, the load will decrease, conditions will improve.
not many people listened to the conference on the subject ...
no, but the nurse will come back like the woman.
so how do we get the nurses back if it's not the money. by better conditions but without more nurses the conditions do not improve. what to do
they are going to give nurses more so that they can put money aside to go back to school and make a profession with better working conditions.
why not have a big recruitment and training campaign? pay people to go to school. a bit like the pab. we skip the basic courses, eg french philo tralala pi, we focus on intensive courses in care, then we integrate them into the environment gradually. as long as there is a lack of personnel, this crisis will never end.
the problem will not change. we have a right-wing government for which the solution in health is privatization. the state of the network is only a direct consequence of this philosophy and its employees suffer the collateral damage of a systematic destruction which has lasted for too long of our state services.
this money would serve better as a bribe to the union so that they do not block the much needed changes that nurses have wanted for 30 years than as a salary bonus.
a part-time nurse with tos has nothing to gain from collecting the 15k bonus for full-time work, she will end up making less cash with a more busy schedule.
it is laughing in the face of the world, because they are nurses and their math level is not stupid, we take the opportunity to abuse them. pathetic.
as a result of statutes like that, my support for nurses in this file is withering.
it is disrespectful screeching of victims of domestic violence, it greatly reduces the still immense benefit offered by the government, and it closes the door to negotiation.
what about the other healthcare workers who haven't received anything and who aren't having a bacon crisis?
criss that there is never anything beautiful when it comes to politics.
don't take the flowers then. will save a ton of money.
so silly comparison….
compare flowers and $ 15,000?
the comparison is gross. if you don't like your working conditions, you can always leave.
it is precisely the flowers, after that it will be the vaton if the situation does not improve. they will laugh a lot less if the government devides to put the private placement centers in bankruptcy.
salaries are not increased, it is a bonus for only one year, it is not recurring. in addition, nurses very rarely complain about their salary, which is not the problem they point out. what they denounce is the mandatory overtime, their chaotic and unpredictable schedules and management that is inefficient (especially compared to other provinces).
a bonus is good, but it must be coupled with other measures (like the end of ost has a fixed date) to really attract new nurses
> this complaining subreddit
this "subreddit" is still 140,000 ish people. you might come across one or two with different opinions.
unless you have an example of a member who flip flop and whine whatever, but in that case call out the hypocrisy of that person specifically ..?
everyone in the thread seems to agree that the text shared by op is a bit silly. i don't see your point, a buddy! = the consensus of the sub-reddit.
they've been calling for an end to tso for years and for more people on the floor and fewer managers.
like it's simple every government refuses to accept that health is expensive and cutting wages it does not work pcq yes paying 40h full time 2 person it is more expensive than paying 1 nurse 120h in ost (because of social advantages)
to hear them that's what they want. they have to attract new people into the system to be able to replace them at 8hrs.
one of the solutions that i had thought of is to stop the tso and to do it on a voluntary basis .... with real advantages. instead of the $ 15,000, pkoi not make 3x the wages in tso? (just as an example)
a solution should be found to attract volunteering.
indeed, and that's not a major part of the solution?
problem: there is a lack of nurses
solution: we increase salaries to attract more to the function, which in the long term would allow them to find more reasonable working hours.
i do not see what solution she would like to see the government do to solve the problem, in fact the government's main tool is precisely on the financial side by offering carrots like this one. if you push to the "extreme", turn the profession into a $ 150k job and the shortage will end in a short time (that's to say that it seems to me to be the right way, i don't know what which would be an adequate salary for the trade). what is certain is that he cannot * force * the world to choose this career to solve the shortage, not in our society.
except c taxable and it ends in 7000-8000 once the deductions of taxes, contributions, union, etc. source: i am phoenix'd federally.
would you say yes to a payment of 15k knowing that from now on your boss can tell you without notice to stay a second shift at the end of your days? (bonus points when it's been 7 days since you told him that someone is going to miss someone and that he squeals fuckall)
it is the solution of a man from another generation who thinks that all problems can be solved with money.
the more people leave, the more work those who stay have. more time, more people leave. it's a vicious circle.
the point is to attract enough people temporarily, to solve the problem in the long term.
> also, they will ensure that the public will take precedence over the private sector for the time slots.
that's beautiful in theory, i can't wait to see if it's applicable. the chef must fill three time slots: he has employees already on the evening and night shift, and agencies available to do just the day shift. if you move the employee from evening to day, nobody does the evening so no more tso.
that's very good, the few times i went to the hospital i had the impression that the nurses spent almost all of their time filling out paperwork instead of treating people.
i like the idea! i haven't been unlucky at all so far in my rentals. on the other hand, when i had to move the last time, i was afraid of falling on a lemon. i would have appreciated having this website with several reviews in my area. if people get on board, it will be a gem in a few years!
good idea, i have been the owner for a few years but there is a building where i lived on st-marc in montreal that everyone should avoid if possible ...
but here is the problem, like similar sites before, your site is just going to be negative comments. we have to find a way to encourage people to share positive experiences too.
as long as we help each other, i saw a tite lack of french on a page;
note your accommodation.
give us your opinion on an accommodation where you have lived
the final ez should be replaced by an é
good job!
there would be a way to automatically verify an invoice with ocr. it would help you with fake reviews while not adding amin load for you. you could add a "verified review" or something like that!
and indeed another said to find a way to have positive feedback. gamifying could help you, like with a badge system.
have you thought about asking frapru to help you communicate around your app? it takes you a critical mass of users for it to hit.
i put my rotten apartment / owner there!
well done! the idea is excellent, the site is super well done and professional. this is something that should have been done before, you have come up with a great idea!
and those who say that people will take the opportunity to settle their accounts, i say so much better! finally a place to express yourself and it will be useful to others! and it couldn't be worse than the reviews on google.
you should send a press release to the media to make yourself known. maybe someone will want to cover this news.
bravo again!
would it be possible to know the price paid by the previous tenant?
aren't you afraid of fake reviews? like someone who runs an apart or owner just to hurt him.
criss of good idea that. good job!
i find it super cool! on the other hand for the address you should add the plugin which completes the address for you and started your data would be certain to be valid.
find a way to ensure that the person who evaluates is not the owner who came to boost his quote .....
like make sure he's a former tenant.
i find it funny. lots of comments that talk about false reviews / the poor landlord / etc but i look at the accommodations and find lots of positive ones! i just did my review and it is positive except for the humidity issues (which are really extreme, i had to clean up the black mold that grew 3 feet on the wall 2 or 3 times a year). it's a great apartment with an excellent owner and a backyard in the heart of brossard for a low rent but if you have asthma, i would say a big no. it lets people know in advance.
well done, i love your site!
i love the idea
do you consider adding the creation of an account as a necessity?
on the user side it allows to have all the reviews in one place and to have notifications.
on the site side, if you see a user spamming the troll, easier to remove everything all at once.
i like the idea, maybe we will have to find a way to eventually verify accounts and give more weight to "legit" reviews but i have no idea how to do it and it's a damn good start.
remember an apartment that i had wet there in the electrical panel
just a heads up, as the owner of the website you are legally responsible for what may be said there, especially if there is libel or false or misleading posts. a mechanism to make sure that everyone can write their version of the facts there seems to me essential, as well as an authentication of the identity and proof of residence. also, protection of personal information ... good luck
wow what a great idea! i hope a lot of people will participate!
excellent survey, it makes me aware of many aspects of my accommodation! it is to be filled at least for that.
it's a good idea, on the other hand, can we put pictures with the reviews? that would give a good idea of if it's the tenant or the landlord the shit, and that would corroborate with the reviews. if you say there is a lot of mold, well, show us! if we see that the apartment is a slum we know you're a shitty tenant, etc ...
it would also join the idea of gamifying the thing! with badges etc. with a sponsorship system, a tenant could give a link to their neighbors generated specifically for the original tenant (so you know it's a sponsored review) to leave other reviews of the building. if a building has reviews on several apartments, everyone wins a badge, the building too, etc ...! it would also help to have more reviews in the long run :)
it's sick as an idea, thank you and bravo. i hope it will make itself known to the point of becoming the de facto reference !!
is it already in place?
i just had two apartments now i have my house but i would love to go and review them. they were both positive but you have to have that too!
voila, i spent a year of late and i would like no one to relive that! thank you!
isn't that the same as shouldyourent.com / rentoupas.com?
very cool idea :)
i have already visited an apartment where there was a big hole in the kitchen wall. and the owner told me: "a little coat of paint and you're done!".
good! my last former owners deserve a bad karma esti, they are so assholes.
to give you an idea, the woman owner wanted to beat my girlfriend in the street because we were showing a young arab couple to give up our lease after buying a property.
they wanted to prevent us from giving in but still sign a lease with new tenants (white of course!) to increase them by $ 100 for a rent of $ 1600 without improvements. it's a cheap renovated old apartment in rosemont, but not too badly located in front of a park.
he didn't give a damn about us when my girlfriend lost her job due to covid. fuck you $ 50 raise deal with your troubles.
superb initiative and beautiful website!
an excellent initiative.
for the legal aspects, i imagine that hosting in a 'neutral' country can help save a lot of time. on the other hand, i do not really know the groups of owners that could have a significant weight.
for fake reviews, i think you could 'require' at least a facebook or google identification, and in case of complaint have a mechanism that allows you to know if it's more legit.
a very small detail, because i find the site extremely well done, but the fitbounds on the markers does not work when the search is too general (i put 'quebec').
super good idea! i will definitely use it for a future accommodation or even review my current accommodation (which is really good) :)
if you need help with the dev level of the site for any reason, don't hesitate, i would be happy to participate;)
really very good initiative! are you worried about getting into trouble if the site becomes widely known?
come and show us this on / r / montrealhousing! super interesting idea!
what a good idea!
question: in the section "notice on the exterior condition of the accommodation", i see "n / a: not applicable" but i see no way to answer n / a to the questions. did i miss a part?
can you invest in that lol
as the owner, excellent work! it is a beautiful tool with a beautiful design. small flat on anonymity; any little landlord is able to do 1 + 1 = 2 and identify the tenant who wrote that, based on the info shared.
personally, i think that's not a problem because it keeps the comments honest, but it's quite naive to believe in anonymity for apartments rated only once or rated based on accommodation in a small plex.
it was time for people to do that! the owners are paid service providers, and deserve reviews and ratings like all other services.
i cannot put n / a for "notice on the external condition -> state of the course"
i don't know how legit it would be to add the owner's name? because if the building is sold and the new owner is good, corrects the defects, it could be too valid.
really good as an initiative!
sir, this is a $ 1 million idea. such a great idea. it's fun to finally have a platform on which our opinion will have a real impact. i swear to you that i distribute the address of your site to the other tenants of my building! good job and thank you :)
big project i just noted my old apartment and it went really well!
good continuation !
15 ritchie street. gatineau. basement apartment rented free. we are the third tenant in 6 months. the owner is the worst slumlord. the square is infested with mold in the basement. he rents. people move in and move out after 2 months because they can no longer breathe. he does no repair and rewarming. crisse that i have the taste to say something when the world visits. serious!
have you thought about how to accumulate the (very important) funds / insurance to defend yourself legally in court? (rightly or wrongly, it will inevitably come)?
a year ago i came to the same conclusion and i had exactly the same idea that i pitched to my girlfriend! however, i never ended up doing it. good luck anyway!
wow, really funny you came up with that idea, i swear a month ago i wanted to do the same for the same reasons. but i had the fear that the housing companies could sue me or whatever for defamation. i approve of this idea, godspeed!
gatsby, netlify, this man uses modern web technologies !!!
very good idea!! super beautiful the site in addition, thank you for that
you should share that in r / canadahousing too. super awesome
thank you, it's a great initiative!
super good idea!
thanks for sharing this!
excellent idea ! i have fantasized for a few years of doing the same for insurance companies ...
full of signs that we are heading towards a normal summer:
* the terraces open;
* the parks are crowded with young people;
* there are garage sales on weekends;
* the leafs choke in series.
toronto let 500 healthcare professionals attend the game to watch their team die live. they have to endure pandemic and then that… lord lol
they lead 3-1!
there is poetic justice in beating toronto in series.
i cry lol
price is my god
carey price ? more like carry price, jeez.
go go go go montreal
we say the "toronto maple lol" now.
[deleted]
the sub of the leafs is dying. they are completely desperate and disillusioned
jesus price
it feels the cut
we don't deserve carey price. fucking legend.
toronto played the game like it was a regular season game. we may not have all the right elements in our training, but tonight we were there to win.
we have shortcomings with our offensive, but what about the top 4 defenders. they simply did a collosal job to shut down all the entrances. price, meanwhile, still scored a phenomenal game.
now, against the jets, it won't be easy. they've been resting and training for 1 week. on the other hand, we arrive there all smoking and we have just proven to everyone what we are capable of. i believe in it and i will say canadian in 6.
i wonder how the leafs continue to breathe after choking for so many years.
mario tremblay and patrick roy reconcile, the curse is lifted.
classic toronto, series in hand 3-1 ... and lose in a fantastic way.
o_o
canadians winning game 7 against the leafs ** in toronto? ** wow, the leafs must have been playing like hell.
letsss sgoooo
why, but why was my brother's neighbors seeing the goals 15 seconds before us ?? we tried tva sports and cbc to see if there was a delay. he is with videotron, on helix.
let's go!
another proof that all these hockey 'experts' are just trendy sheep ... every fucking series of the same thing i will start betting money against them if it continues.
at this point, you have to wonder with what the hell harold ballard signed a pact with so that the leafs are so miserable year after year. but hey, we'll take it anyway! bring the jets!
i just want to say thanks on behalf of flames fans guys. i did not want to listen to anlgophone media talk about the leafs for another month. game 7 too, price stood on his head, weber is a bc boy. good day for western hockey. good luck vs winnipeg, let's take it home.
i've been saying the same thing for a while, but i really think that we can not like marc bergevin, we can disagree with his decisions (i often am myself), but we really cannot say that he is incompetent.
lots of points that made me want his start in the season were explained by the playoffs:
\ - a defense made of mountains which have difficulty moving the puck; this defense seems much better suited to the physical style of the playoffs, where no room is left and each exit from the zone is a fight.
\ - éric staal and erik gustafsson, cheap additions but which seemed to act as a burden on their team at the end of the season; staal was one of our best players, and gustafsson was responsible defensively while opening up unexpected offensive opportunities and helping the pp to score.
\ - price's contract; it is for times like that that we pay him. he rushed in february, but in march he did a .931, which is great, so i had faith in him, but holy fucking shit this series reminds us why he's the franchise player on our team. i would also like to note that of the 15 highest paid players in the nhl, he is the only one to have made it to the 2nd round.
and my point is not to say that bergevin's decisions are necessarily good, or that there is no better option like gm, but i'm glad his decisions that seemed to have been mistakes are at the very least explainable.
wow! good job the leafs to extend the record!
when will the tickets go on sale vs the jets?
please thank you
as tradition dictates ...
is there still hockey this time of year? well ...
sign that announces winter: the leaves are falling
sign that announces summer: the leafs fall
it's the only good thing tonight for us in toronto, the leafs losing a streak mean the world is back to normal 🥲
sorry for the bad french btw, it's because of french education in ontario lol
there is a riot around the center bell.
it only remains for the habs to be planted in the quarterfinals.
i'm an ontarian and your comment is funny. thanks doug ford and <<ford nation!> >
this summer is officially a great summer.
perfect use of;
500 healthcare professionals ... to confirm they are dead
we must still admit that the gesture is good. i hope the same for the ch.
i am seriously concerned about their mental health. it really can't be easy.
just in case another player gets a knee in their nose at full speed.
it's still cool, they gave the workers sweaters and pizza!
yes!! worse, the other day they were playing badly, but they still won !!
and it passed close tonight that they won 3-0 !!
we must always keep hope, even when it is difficult ahahaha !!
i call it a harmony.
his back hurts from carey his team
true ... but did not count the goals. anyways, a w is a w!
maple laughs
i'm embarking 😂
should do a "cloud-to-butt" style plugin, but which specifically checks for "toronto maple leafs" to change it to "toronto maple lols" ...
maple memes
[deleted]
unibroue sells all over the world. several people complain that they were sold (and yes i find that sad too), but it remains a great example of quebec success in french. their beers have always praised our history, our language and our heritage and they have achieved a very good international reputation. not like the cannabis companies that take names in english even when they are 100% quebec criss. you don't have to sell your identity to be successful in business. never forget it.
la finn doo monday, troy's pistols, m'oddity and don day dioo, from you knee brew
are you still doing the end of the world in a 3 liter bottle? i had a friend who brought it to parties.
strangely, it was always the first passed out in a corner 😂
i see comments from people in the united states who really like the end of the world.
i had an acquaintance in utah who said that down there because of the mormons beer is limited to 3.2% (changed to 5% since) and they are not used to tasty alcohol. have a special fort sell permit to sell more than 5% and then people go for doubles and triples so long and so they like.
rank # 1 of triples: 
is this in orono at the ampersand? looks familiar
this is nothing new. they had some at my college pub in boston in 2005.
i confirm that there is the grocery store in hawaii!
unibroue is found in several states, the liquor store also has it here in utah
a surprise to be sure, but a welcome one
i drank several liters of end of the world during these last months (because there is a lot of alcohol in it and because it's the end of the world !!!) and it really became one of my favorite beers
the end of the world is the canadian beer with the most medals.
source : [
also in california
i went to new orleans two years ago and they had these beers in wholefood
finally, being a sub-division of sapporo, it gives results ...
surprised? i've been drinking unibroue for at least eight years in florida and colorado. not terribly hard to find. picked up a bottle of fin du monde the other day to enjoy during christmas week.
everyone here talks about the united states, but i found unibroue in switzerland in lausanne in a bar called "les gosses du québec" right next to the station 😂 i never thought i would drink la fin du monde with a canadian's sweater hanging above me, 6000 km from home 😂
maine is right next door. i saw it in alaska.
even during the end of the world, you were blessed with a gift from god that the cursed three pistoles be there !!!!
i had unibroue in italy (arona) and spain (madrid).  
and if you go to arone (it) stop at la bottega della birra.
yes the brand is everywhere in the states and we drink it with pleasure
at a bar in new orleans they had la fin du monde on their beer menu, $ 25 (usd) a bottle.
i introduced the unibroue to colleagues in colorado, i was surprised to find it there!
i drank them in ohio a lot of times (at pubs). i wish creemore springs was here!
you can find the end of the world at disneyworld.
the best discovery i made was a winter soltice and two or three other beers from the micro dieu du ciel in a store specializing in micro in boston v'la 4-5 years old
i once found it in a bar in santa cruz, california. it was called 99, and there were 99 kinds of beers from all over the world, so some proud representatives of quebec. felt like home!
where abouts?! i live in maine
i don’t miss my quebecois first husband now that i’m back in the united states, but i really miss the beer and meat pies. 😭
i once was refused to be sold a six pack of unibroue at a corner store in boston because i didn't have my passport with me, and they wanted nothing to do with my quebec healthcare card. i'm in my mid thirties :'(
they had some in a nashville bar (the family wash i believe) in 2013! i was not expecting that at all.
9% is up there!
we have it at the liquor store in california itou. there are even some at trader joe's. is it also unibroue who make their cuvée? annual (at least it's been that way so far ... haven't gone out much lately).
what i understand they pay dearly for them
yeah
nice!
my favourite beer brand. too bad i quit drinking :(
i've actually found it in many shops across the us! even here in hawaii. always brings a smile to my face.
i was \*thrilled\* to find fin du monde and trois pistoles in my grocery store in iowa!! i stood with my mouth hanging open in the beer cooler thanking the beer gods.
they are everywhere in the usa
unibroue is good, but where are shelter from the storm?
oufff that stuff is bad for hangovers
drink responsibly
ah yes, japanese beer!
unibrew is owned by sapporo
it's even pae dla good beer esti kle quebecois are too proud for nothing
yo mama's puzzy juize
quebec beer...
those beers are all bad
the only unibroue beer i like is l'éphèmère. the rest is... mediocre.
i think my great grand parents were also good quebecois exports.
limit, more posivoté.
it reminds me of one of my student jobs in a chocolate factory / creamery in old quebec. they just hired teenagers because they were the only ones to tolerate poor working conditions, when you're a student with no experience you have no choice. i was doing shifts from 5pm to midnight without a break with an unpaid close hour and got kicked out for using ice cream after 11pm when i was on the verge of falling apart. they accused me of “theft”. at some point when you underpay your employees who are mostly between 16-19 years old and who have no notion of labor standards, you are the thief. today they are on the verge of going out of business ... karma's a bitch.
heard from the mouth of a manager in my job: "we are short of people at the cash desks, so to fill our hours we will force all our cashiers to work 40 hours a week, from monday to friday, non-negotiable."
we are talking here about a student job that is aimed at students, so people who by definition have at least one other major occupation that takes up most of their time. an occupation that they value more than their minimum wage job, it's a safe bet.
more than half of the cashiers therefore resigned in the following weeks and the manager in question has no idea what could have happened.
the great mysteries of our time.
"no no, it's the profit margin that's too small .... we can't give $ 2 more an hour, that would put us out on the street. let them do like everyone else and hope to great tips to make ends meet "- just about everyone here who is defending the current model.
i work in a shopping mall store. i have pretty good insurance, relatively frequent increases, we hire above the minimum wage, we often have draws / contests with prizes of $ 500 + for employees and as soon as you work more than 15h / week t have bonuses.
it's funny, but since the start of the pandemic we have never lacked staff. we had departures and we immediately found people. during this time, 3/4 of the stores don't even close at 9 p.m. on thursday / friday because they lack staff. i chatted with employees of other stores and there are managers who are paid less than me, although i am just a normal clerk.
i wonder what my store chain is doing that is different from others? / s
the capitalist model is incompatible with the current essential needs in particular the cost of living and without mentioning housing.
modern slavery? no thanks.
companies with executives who make hundreds of thousands a year, who do not understand why their minimum wage employees do not have the same passion as them for their job, that they do not want to sacrifice their families and their health for it. that we offer them.
[to be lazy at the job is to be a good capitalist.] (
"the government must help me bring cheap labor from the international market."
"if i could pay them less, i would!"
i dont speak french at all but i think i understand enough to get it, so yea fuck greedy employers.
op you forgot in the last box to blame the pcu benefits
so true. a bakery near us closed recently and the owner was crying in front of the media. she didn't even want to pay $ 20 an hour and 4 weeks vacation ... if she's not ready to give the bare minimum i'm glad she's going bankrupt
they just have to hire pierre-yves mcsween for their pr companion.
[link] (
>! economic decline! <
the flip side of the capitalist's coin is that the one who succeeds in exploiting his employees and offering better prices has an advantage over the one who does not. whether through relocation, immigration or young people without experiences easy to exploit.
at least in quebec, the power relationship between employer and employee is reversed and he took it for granted, that's good to see.
a cheap employer with a troubled soul.
do you have anyone who uses the word "valiant" in this sense besides the boomers who bitch against the younger generations?
valiant: courageous, courageous, who faces difficulties without failing, who is willful. so someone who puts on his panties and dares to tell his boss to eat shit instead of lowering his head in the face of the difficulties of the working world or waiting for someone else to defend the interests of the workers in his place is a valiant person.
the "shortage" is bullshit. employers have almost impossible hiring conditions that just take advantage of the few jobs. it's also a way for them to wash their hands of their failure to hire more people, like "it's not me who doesn't want to hire, there's just a shortage of manpower, good!"
if the success of your business model depends on the exploitation of those who are its architects, it will not survive such a change. and maybe that's all the better.
i've been saying this to those around me for a while, but the world is too confused in their business to understand something.
fast food and other low-cost services are set to decline significantly. there will be a lot of closure.
if we don't want to pay more for their services then they will close. this will mean that we don't really need it. if for a few dollars more per lunch we don't want to go, then this kind of service is not essential and therefore only a handful will remain in the end that will remain open with competitive wages.
i still go from time to time to eat at mcdonald's and other fast food. i know it's expensive and the prices are going up. the day that it will be too expensive and that i do not want to pay that price, i will eat at home.
we are in a service revolution. inevitable.
while you're at it, if the success of your business model depends on animal exploitation, maybe you should reconsider that too.
i say that in the same way.
pi in ottawa, the small businesses in the city center unable to adapt to teleworking cry that the world has to come back!
it's rubbish even in jobs that are "stable".
for example companies like shmamazon almost only hire immigrants. people need jobs and they don't know they are getting screwed.
the company has a lot of salaried managerial positions where overtime is not paid at all.
but these "managers" are just management positions with the name, so they can take advantage of the world. when we tell you that you are paid at the annual salary so no ts, but that you manage to work 60-70 hours per week, let's say that not many people stay there for a long time.
what are you talking about, he earned a lot less than us in 1970, they were just doing $ 6 / h in a shop, it's much better now, they do the same job for $ 15! / s
$(|>&!|(_!\>
millennials would like to stay with their parents until their deaths so as not to work a little ...
the world on this sub have become communists and their eyes are closed
this is exactly why employers mostly look for students and immigrants, because it is much easier to abuse your employees if they are less aware of labor standards.
exact. it happened to me twice in a few years to have a bug with the interac machine and that the transaction had finally not worked. the customers were gone. both times (two different places), the managers made me pay for the items out of my pocket.
well criss, i did not know it was not allowed! they have insurance for that and that's part of the losses. $ 50 for me at 18 was half of my pay. them-others? it was fuck all.
it reminds me of my early days of work, i was the model employee who never said not encouraged bad advice from my parents (because it worked like that in their time). stress, anxiety, dignity, i felt like crap.
can we know the name of the business and never encourage it again?
i worked at natrel as a young student for a summer job. the employees were very well paid and possibly even unionized, but we students, and there were many of us, were paid half of their salary and we were not allowed chocolate milk, just normal.
i have to tell you we all "stole" little glasses of chocolate and i'm sure all the supervisors saw us and didn't say anything.
yeah, it's boring but doing yourself justice is not the right thing to do. stealing from your employer, even if it's shit, it's still theft.
> half of the cashiers therefore resigned in the following weeks and the manager in question has no idea what could have happened.
they seem to think that the students who work there part-time are there to start a career as cashiers / store managers, and not to support their financial needs related to their studies.
whenever i have quit a minimum wage / customer service job because of my studies (at the end of the summer or when the session gets more demanding), i always get the same reaction from pikachu surprised then it's never been a secret that it's not my intention to stay there forever. i even had a manager who banged his fist in fury on his desk because it was not what he had scheduled.
so much the story of one of my kids, in high school, when the pharmacy manager changed
- it takes at least 2 evenings available during the week!
- i am available 10 am-3pm but only on weekends
- i absolutely need availability during the week
- no thank you then, i'm resigning
- surprisedpikachu
lollllll well done
we are the head office that puts a minimum of working hours at the cash desk per person. it got us into the big mess, because we have to refuse cvs that can only last 3/4 of the requested hours… we've been short staff ever since.
god save us from myopic managers
lol this practice would have been illegal anyway. an employer does not have the right to interfere with the education of their employees, regardless of educational level. they would have a 60-year-old employee who decides to go to college just for fun, and they wouldn't have the right to force him to work those kinds of hours any more.
they have done well to squeal their camp.
what i find fucked up is the "get rich quick" mentality.
entrepreneurs all want to be profitable super quickly and many are ready to walk on the backs of others to achieve profitability.
a business that works should have its ups and downs. it takes time to build customer loyalty. and it takes time to build a business with its employees.
> no no, it's the profit margin that is too small ....
i don't doubt that, it could very well be that his business model is shit and his business doesn't deserve to live.
if you want good workers pay for good workers
which store for fun?
fully agree.
having said that, how does the person who comes to this conclusion live / support themselves?
truly?! in a capitalist world, is it not possible to have good working conditions and a good salary? would it not be possible to share a share of the profits, increase the taxes of the rich, improve labor laws, pass measures to better share the wealth, etc.?
i know on reddit it's super popular to criticize capitalism for all the ills in the world, but can you explain yourself more? i don't see the link ...
edit: to those who downvote, i don't mind, but i'd be really curious as to why you don't agree with me.
it is not necessarily the capitalist model that is incompatible but rather the corrupt capitalist model that exists today. in a capitalist society which is aware that profit is not the end goal, generally life is much better than in other countries which have a communist system.
unfortunately, due to the corruption of the business elites and their political employees it is very difficult to buy land, a building, pay all utilities and taxes, if the owner pays all his employees a reasonable salary, he or she does not do more than the employee it pays. may he take all the risk.
do you think you can live better with socialism? hahahahahahahahahahaha
"the caq government for which i voted because it promised to reduce the number of immigrants, must increase the number of immigrants"
we are starting to get closer to the feeling of / r / leopardsatemyface / + brexit.
this is the definition of minimum wage. if the government weren't so strict, i wouldn't even have paid so much.
this is also what customers say to each other
their story costs dearly.
well a minority government with the balance of power in the bloc is pretty much the best i would have hoped for.
you can also put the people and the liberal government on your own
so the minory government became made with memematic?
*burp*
laughs in albertan
v funny
worse there we have to type the municipal ones.
why would anyone vote him in
for 650 million ... incredible
i cannot regard justin trudeau as a helpful person. this is a bit serious considering that it is the prime minister (again unfortunately).
b
well, another way of seeing it is that we give the population the choice to express themselves on what they think of the management in 2020 and 2021 and if we give them a mandate to continue in the same direction.
we know that polls are worth what they are worth. there is no question, the message is clear. we don't really love you, but we don't hate you as much as the conservatives.
if you don't like this system well, you have to focus on moving to a proportional system to let days be more radical. (fairvote.ca)
also everyone seems to forget that even if they did not win a seat, they still reset their counter to zero. this is their biggest win.
we have the possibility that the economy shits solid in the next 3 years and that opens the door to their competition.
$ 612,000,000 / 158 seats, that works out to $ 3,873,417.72 per seat ... it's not that bad to have both hands on the wheel, right? / s
but wasn't that already it seems? in fact, i think the bloc came with less seat than before.
edit: woops my bad le bloc en a win
but how does the bloc have the balance of power? trudeau will play the bloc against the ndp as before. he just needs one of them to rule.
the ndp also has the balance of power, it can hurt your nation that, and the wallet.
me too buddy
no it's finished.
honestly, i'm less hot on proportional since bernier has been here. as long as everyone is in good faith, it works but add a few assholes that are there just to obstruct and things get out of hand ...
> we don't hate you as much as the conservatives
yeah, but they won the popular vote for the 2nd time online ... ~ 66% of voters wanted someone else. with less than 34%, a party remains in power by hijacking the law on fixed-date elections (which serves as a sweet bag). the system is archaic.
the liberals may be in the minority, it just means that they only have ~ 2 years to rule with impunity, since coalition governments are not part of our mores * sigh *
edith: if we had a real head of state rather than a royal puppet, she could have prorogued parliament and forced the parties to form a new government rather than go to elections ...
you mean over $ 200m in additional seating?
$ 612,000,000 for just one seat, don't forget :)
you still have to count the 338 seats.
two more.
no, the bloc won 2 seats to move to 34, the liberals won 3 seats to move to 158, idiots stayed the same at 119, the ndp won 1 seat, and the greens stayed the same at 2 seats.
so if you're wondering how it's done well it's probably the 5 independents and the vacant seat that have changed.
so in terms of% change the bloc has technically won because they have 6.25% more seats, the liberals 1.93% more seats and the ndp 4.16% more seats.
same number of elected officials for the moment with 2 more in the lead
the reverse is also true, if one of the 2 big parties is controlled by an extremist group (the gop in the usa for example) well one of these groups will be in a much better position to possibly monopolize the power than simply being an extremist party. within a coalition of 2-3 other parties (what would happen in the case of proportional)
in a mixed proportional system, there is a quota of at least 5% of the popular vote to qualify for seats.
but on the other hand there are not many people who voted for this election (48%) and eg he "charmed" people who do not usually vote. i hope that with proportional voting it will encourage more people to vote.
getting more power in our hands goes hand in hand with being responsible for not letting hitlers take power because there is still a bigger buffer in a less democratic system like our current fptp.
can be representative vote and compulsory vote to temper radicals.
when i say "we" i mean quebecers. it is sure that in the west there is a great concentration of conservatives who would like to continue to pollute and their vote is underrepresented. if we had shale gas wells in quebec, that might have been enough to tip the balance, but as it is, the conservatives have nothing to offer quebeckers. they even use us as an enemy to rally their troops.
oh fuck ok. nice!
remember that the liberals had 157 seats after the last election. so, it's like they only win one seat… even though their vote share has gone down!
and in a case of proportional voting, it will currently promote the increase in the number of parties over time.
mixed proportional ftw
the world in tabarnak because of the moderator went to vote immediately afterwards in advance. so when they reached 20, they stayed at home since they had already voted.
the advance poll boxes are opened last.
this is for local representation as well as ideological representation, but it does not moderate any more than other forms of voting. fptp is less democratic and less radical than any form of representative voting and that means more usable by more radical groups.
it does not matter, when enough people are fed up, they will be downvoted. so far, from my immigrant perspective, i find them funny. and then i'm fed up that this sub is only articles from lapresse and jdm.
[deleted]
across an ocean of "everyone who thinks not like my group is caves" i find it the winnie meme. all quebecers of any ideology or absence of ideology can come together and laugh a little at the * stimmated * udder * pinne butter * and remember that there is still something cultural that connects us all even if we don't always agree with each other man this drink was stronger than i thought
just me who finds it ironic that op hates recycling winnie's meme but then posts a meme with one of the most overused templates in memes history?
edit: just my opinion, i still found it funny!
honestly, i like it, i find it funny.
am i the only one who laughs at every damn winnie meme? therefore, i have nothing against hahaha
"i will continue to make winnie meme": /
« j’continue » :)
* homer watches the classic duff dripping from his pipe in the duff factory *
“describe grandma's problem”
* homer watches the duff dry flowing from his pipe in the duff factory *
“contribute to grandma's problem”
homer: how to choose!
* the camera zooms out and reveals that both are from the same pipe & $!%! # *
what's really meta is recycling memes about recycling winnie's meme. pandemics in the movies are exciting but at the end of the day it's just groundhog day.
it's reddit, the votes will decide.
this is the best content on the sub in a while sincerely ...
there are other subs ...
i love it, it's fun to laugh a little at our talk. grannies do not prevent also posting tse articles .. it is possible to laugh and learn about the same sub ..
the meme with winnie helps me learn jouale so i like it.
this drake meme is quite a bit more recycling.
i have the doua
my only real disappointment is that we just have two-stage winnies. a few weeks ago there were a lot of 3/4 stages. content creators are lazy.
i love them, me winnie meme
i like the same ones much better than rereading the same complaining comments on legault.
it's the only meme that made me laugh so far.
i'm sick of it | pu capab '
i don't understand ... winnie's meme is quality content
lmao
worse the pti po chieux in degrassi which is collected in a wheelchair c sad that.
between winny and the jdem articles, it's pretty much the same level of quality
not enough natas / portuguese tartlet
i find it very funny and it changes the covid update ... i also like the week of cats on the lol sub
/ u / huissierdechambly you're just a big bitchy whore
i miss the grannies who move
chalice.
we'll say it when we're tired
it's better than silly debates about the usefulness of sanitary measures
ou celui de drake! lol, irony at its best!
quebec and quality do not go together. it's like you want something light and strong lul
r / quebec, a division of facebook.
the fewer jdm articles, the better i am
i hadn't seen it from that angle, i think i started upvoting them
this is our "bruno blanchet" moment from the sub. out of nowhere, and then you hit yourself on the thighs, master piece!
one day, someone is going to do a social paper on the construction of the quebec identity via winnie le caca
> just me who finds it ironic that op hates recycling winnie's meme but then posts a meme with one of the most overused templates in memes history?
this is the joke lol
with his orange coat criss
it's getting really, really too much these last few days. it’s really funny.
personally, i stopped finding it funny in week 2 of wave 1 of this meme. we are at the 3rd wave of this meme.
they are really funny every time
are cramping
mafare of the same *
sacrament t hot stiff toé
your meme is better than the op and it's text hahahahh
at least that's fucking nice groundhogs.
username checks out.
si taldoua moissi her ldoua
it's funny, it almost looks like two countries.
canada is bilingual!
when do we annex acadia?
the saddest thing is the former french-speaking regions which have become more than 80% of the english parts.
i am thinking in particular of winnipeg (saint-boniface, northern ontario and even acadia.
the english of the west island know french in at least more than 70% of the cases according to what we see here. so there must be a nasty gang who play innocent people and pretend they don't know french to be served in english when they come to my store.
it is sad that canadians are proud of not being able to speak two languages.
>"ottawa-gatineau"
ah well, this administrative license is not yet at the garbage?
the "trudeauesque" purpose of this patent was to invent a bilingual federal capital by taking over a piece of french-speaking quebec.
(cementing quebec into canada was another motivation.)
yet they could have been content with not making post-merger ottawa ** a unilingual english city **. especially since the said city had merged formerly french-speaking villages, and still had plenty of passive and active french-speakers.
some also hoped that administratively merging a still french-speaking city with ottawa would reverse the tendency of francophones in ottawa to speak more and more english in all circumstances: work, friends, and even family ...
the effect was exactly the opposite: it simply extended / accelerated anglicization in gatineau. so the project had been slowed down.
with the cost of housing lower in gatineau, things get even worse.
shout out in the yukon and nunavut!
it's still a strange choice to have made close (sorry i never remember the right term for a zone "zoomed" on a map) covered in red for the maritime provinces ... except nb which is however the only officially bilingual canadian province.
being an immigrant who arrived in toronto, i was surprised that nobody speaks french.
i probably did not do the right research, but my interactions being mostly official with the government, i did believe that there is a minimum of bilingual skills.
because 25% of the yukon and tnw know french?
it's depressed af
but people who live in the red regions do not have the opportunity to speak french. if they find out, they may not be using it.
ontario side: should have more sections near ottawa and in eastern towns / villages. same thing with the cities of the north (on the 11). basically the% is true but in terms of visual representation we lack a lot since there are so many predominantly french-speaking centers.
30% of the population, not at all worse.
seeing the maritime provinces, it reminded me of [this map] ( from 2001, which i would really like to see an update.
i wish i could speak french
let's go children of the fatherland
the day of glory has come !
against us from the tyrany
the bloody banner is raised
do you hear in our countryside
blared the wild soldiers?
they come right into your arms.
slay your son, your companions!
*to arms, citizens*
* train your battalions *
* let's walk, let's walk *
*only an impure blood*
*water our furrows*
osti d'caliss de tabarnak
the montreal part of the graphic will appeal to the columnist
the 30% is false according to stat canada
no data on pei?
“scientists believe they have found proof of the existence of a large black hole in canada with the largest * red shift * on record”
i think we should just go on a language crusade and convert as many people as possible to learn french. but  people ask me on the daily if i have taken medication.
oh ye it's french time
my biggest doubt about independence, it's sad, but without quebec the french-speaking communities in canada lose their political power, it is clear that if we start with official bilingualism and the laws on multiculturalism it creaks. camps pretty quickly.
what happened to windsor-essex county stats? many people speak french there.
celebrate the difference! french enriches our culture and makes us better together!
why less french in northern quebec? more aboriginals?
it's not for nothing that we call it the west island in montreal.
bravo west island
le p'tit boutte bleu in ontario in sudbury.
ok but why on earth would people in western canada for example, know any french at all?? is it that surprising that most of canada doesn’t speak french?
i admit hahaha * starts to cry *
the land of the persecuted victims in red. worse the country of the wicked nazi of the language in blue which cruelly persecutes the minority in red.
because we can just speak one language per country?
[
meanwhile and inde.
[meanwhile en suisse...](
*crying intensifies*
for the record i lean more sovereign than federalist but for really radical and different reasons.
there are those who want the moon.
ideally all canadians would be bilingual, but 30% is still very good. it's about 11 million so yes, canada is bilingual. especially when you consider that most of the country has never been colonized by france. there are more and more young people outside quebec who are enrolled in french-language schools or immersion programs. the problem is that the retention of french is not good and even that it is slowly decreasing. young people have no place to practice their french once they leave the academic system. there are few jobs in which they can use french frequently and therefore they lose it. i don't really see a solution to this problem, however. do you want the state to force private companies to speak french when less than 10% of their customers speak french and almost 0% do not speak english?
i do not understand the method of using the fact that there are few bilingual people in the other provinces as an argument for leaving canada. ok, i'm in the sub minority that is against separatism, but that's okay, everyone is entitled to their opinion. however, this particular argument is not a valid argument for separatism. if you think that canada is not making enough efforts at present to promote french, how will things improve when we leave canada? how would the canadian francophonie be in better shape when the country loses 20% of its population, which vigorously defends the french language?
as someone from southern ontario, i think most of the problem is that at school my french teachers were terrible. it's hard to learn something from a teacher who even learns it.
i think quebec / canada should invest in sending people who can learn french well, and put an emphasis on quebec / canadian culture and not france. nobody cares about france.
sorry if my french is terrible, but i want to improve :)
*snorts cocaine* 
it's possible given the mass geographical distances.
no. no it's not. 
canada is bilingual: yeah in vancouver opt to learn english and mandarin cause we all know it's hongcouver over there.
maybe asking them by referendum if they want to be annexed would be a better idea. :)
and vanier in ottawa!
lil' hitler over here loll
edit: you guys are assholes. stop downvoting me. it's a robot chicken reference ffs
edit: holy shit r/quebec it was a joke  lol
while i don't disagree with your sentiment this map isn't very accurate either. the district of st boniface is more than 20% french-speaking but on the map it is twinned with other more english-speaking districts. there are still a lot of regions where up to 30% of the population in the otherwise english speaking provinces speaks french. it is not negligible.
it happened backwards too. like sherbrooke and the eastern townships were predominantly anglophone. essentially, in the second half of the twentieth century, there was a two-way exchange where quebec became less english-speaking and canada-english became less french.
the other side of seeing it is that in a place as unexpected as the central toronto area (with 400,000 people) that there is a 10 to 20% chance that you will find someone who speaks french (40,000 to 80,000 people), as well as in much of vancouver or edmonton or calgary, a situation that would not have existed at all when st-boniface had only 8,000 people and was 70% bilingual, and at a time when these last places would not even have 3 to 5% who speak french.
the actual numbers have not gone down in 20 yrs....they increased by about 2%/yr.....20,000 in o tario increase. this shows percentage of french speakers. immigration and population growth in these provinces has inceeased dramatically vs french quebec.  1970 the population of ontario was about equal to quebec. today ontario has almost 2x the population. technically the same is true in qc as well.... french speakers grew by 2%/yr. but no new nor converted populations. plus,  since the 3 revolutions (silent, bill101, womens rights) there are .74 babies/person. a decrease of .26/generation. my mother in law was the 20th kid....french needs people and/ot people to want to speak it.... and money is motivation. for french to grow, it needs wealthy businesses to require it of their employees. either wealthy businesses move to quebec (bill 101 stops that) or businesses here grow wealthy and need immigrants. that or more babies.
they know how to defend their rights!
i will place tintin in second position in the comic book series which marked my youth the most. only asterix surpasses him.
tintin is an idol, he knows how to do everything and he is the best at everything. dupont and dupond are the only ones at his level.
bruh imagines living in a french-speaking country and not having read tintin
no, this french-speaking comic book which has sold 200 million copies has no quebec admirers. 🙃
anglo quebecois here.
i found tintin's books in our local library when i was a child.
i'm sure i learned french faster than my friends because of him.
i got my tintin pass when i was 12-13 years old, i got into all the comics or almost.
to this day, '' les bijoux de la castafiore '' remains my favorite!
is it a real book ??
tintin is my childhood. i watched shows and read comics when i was around 9/10 years old.
i, who never expected to see château frtontenac at 2 °
i am spanish but i live in the united states. asterix and tintin are very, very important in european culture and i'm happy he's known in quebec too.
when i speak on asterix here the anglos do not know him. :-(
tintin and the lost tram.
when i went to brussels i visited the comic strip museum in brussels and they had a marble bust of tintin, it was amazing.
it will never sell.
there is no accent on the é.
what a magnificent drawing! looks like he's from hergé studios. there is a book called "tintin and quebec: hergé at the heart of the quiet revolution", for those who wish to deepen their knowledge of the impact that the young reporter had on our people.
i prefer [nitnit and * la fin de la dope *] ( by henriette valium ( 1987).
tonnerre de brest of course we love tintin!
certainly!
i live right next to the chateau frontenac!
my uncle had stopped all his tintin and asterix comics for me.
there is not much that goes beyond the memory of reading and rereading these comics.
with the blue and spirou tunics of course!
he even [ate maple taffy] (
i saw a similar one but with the pierced rock when i went to gaspésie!
i have the complete collection including tintin chez les soviets which is in black and white, the comic book has the most striking of my childhood
if i can summarize the history in this thread:
1 - asterix or tintin
2 - tintin or asterix
3 - one of all the other comics published in spirou.
thank you all for looking back 40 years.
it feels good, and yes, tintin au québec is the missing album!
i say that without any prejudice, really, no, good ok, just because the chateau de frontenac is on the illustration, and worse, good it's quebec anyway, worse ... no really, no parti- taken...
since the beginning of the 60s!
what is that question? sure!
oh yes i love tintin! my uncle had the whole collection he left with my grandmother. every time we went there i had a blast reading everything!
my favorite story will always be objectif lune and we walked on the moon.
not to mention one of my favorite fictional characters, captain haddock !!!
tintin is great but personally i have always been a fan of yakari. never seen other fans for example.
bin kin
tbh i lived for achilles heel young
i loved tintin so much from 8 to 14 years old (and i still like him, but i no longer read books 6 times a year). when i was a kid and learned that albums mostly dated from the 1930s and 1950s, i couldn't believe it!
but what is the name of this castle behind our hero?
1.lucky luck
2.asterix
3.tintin
4.marsupilami
ben kin!
i hope he will go and listen to the musician at the end of the terrace who sings 'the little north train' all crooked: p
very younger fan with the asterix and co ..
not reread since .. but the opinion on the whole is more mixed when you learn more about the context, belgium, hergé, collaborator, the fallacious arguments of some to say that you misunderstand, etc.
i have the temple of the sun in spanish, bought in mexico city, and le combat des chefs in catalan, bought, you guessed it, in barcelona.
my grandmother has them all at home, so i reread them when i go. she even has the ones that are not politically correct 😂
i loved tintin. but am i the only one who remains a little uncomfortable about the author's underlying racism? i reread tintin in congo recently to see if my son would be able to understand the story, and ... ouch. it's worse than i remembered.
it's an artefact from another era so i know we shouldn't dwell on it too much. but still...
yes
ah didn’t know this exists! nice
did you draw this?
i read them but i was not the biggest fan. i found tintin in the congo very funny anyway and i don't think we thought it was close to reality. the same goes for tintin in america with the indians.
was this a real book?
tintin is my long time favorite. by far my top 1.
pier tombal, astérix, gaston lagaffe and achille talon follow closely!
do not
tinlou! rally!
i have never really been a fan of tintin. i preferred spirou or asterix.
yes
i do! drette here!
... not serious?
impossible, there are no tree leaves in march ...
already 9 years old, it's completely crazy! we made our thighs of steel that year with the evening demonstrations.
[deleted]
** one demo per evening, until victory! **
edit: i will write the popular slogans of 2012. add the ones i forgot!
** please note, these slogans are here for historical interest and are not a call to violence **.
* charest, outside, we'll find you a job in the north!
* a people, united, will never be defeated! (in honor of the chilean slogan "el pueblo unido jamás será vencido")
* to whom the street, to us the street!
* in a charest chest (chanted in a loop to give "charest in a tank chest", in reference to pierre laporte and the flq)
* we advance, we advance, we do not retreat!
* we want to study, we don't want to go into debt!
* charest, slacken off, do like your minister!
* the special law, we gobble it up!
* capital makes war on us, war on capital!
* police everywhere, justice nowhere!
* there is money in the pockets of employers!
* if the police are following us, it is because they are supporting us!
* the police, at the service of the rich and the fascists!
* charest, bastard, the people will have your skin!
* charest, shut up, we can hang out on our own!
criss that it was such fun.
"death to slogans" (red sign lower right). it is my favorite.
it's sad enough to think that spring 2012 remains marked in people's minds as a victory for young people against the state when in reality it ended in failure from behind.
the pq was elected and they rushed to fulfill their promise to freeze tuition fees to look good but what few people realize is that from behind they pushed through the full-time student tax credit from 20% to 8% to compensate.
while tuition was a more egalitarian measure (which affected all students, rich or poor), the pq measure only affects students who work during their studies (those who need short cash). so not only was the spring of 2012 a failure, it ended up having worse effects for people who study with little money.
i was there. a defining moment in my life. i then started my career in the union world.
meanwhile, the 10 green squares who want to have their lessons ....
ah, the îlot voyageur. it brings back memories 😌
i especially remember what jacques newtown-villeneuve had said about the spoiled rotten students at the time. since that day, we haven't really heard from him.
[deleted]
i remember very well.
i was in the street with my students. i wore my red and pink squares during the demonstrations.
the misfortune really hit when the injunctions started to come in.
i discovered r / québec at the same time ...
damn waiting line for the shwartz
it's a lot better than the november evening scat!
ahh yes i remember, probably unpopular opinion but i tell anyway. there are always two sides to a coin ...
in technical at cegep, last session, we start our 5-week internship. when we came back, the students who were demonstrating wanted to prevent us from coming back, throwing us straight out into the street. there were 7 of us in the technical field, we wanted to finish our dec. the teachers also wanted to finish the year and evaluate us on our internships. impossible, we sang with trumpets in the “so so so, solidarity!” classes, they entered our classes, turned everything upside down.
during the protests, the organizers set up a kind of platform to give voice to the demonstrators. with my classmates we went to see, and for 1 hour, the people who introduced themselves were all people in the human sciences ... world or individual. regardless, it's often a majority in these programs when you look at the number of students per program. i have never seen anyone in natural science, let alone a technique. we didn't give a damn about other programs, say.
so how did we get our dec that same year? we disassociated ourselves from the student association and were reimbursed for our big $ 5 of "membership". and there we fell outside their "jurisdiction" and we were able to continue and finish our studies.
i do not blame the cause, it is a valid cause and we must fight for our rights and our education. we agreed that university fees were high. they still are. but we also witnessed many "profiteers" who just wanted to have free days and take it easy at the expense of people who want to work in peace. in the end, all the techniques followed suit with us, even as the dental hygiene technique was denied their right to vote at the beginning because the organizers did not want their voice to be heard. it is sad to see people of 17 and 18 siding with despotism for the benefit of a cause that is valid, but sullies its validity by infringing on the rights of others.
how come everyone was in a t shirt on march 22 :(
i wish i was old enough to participate. what a great demonstration
it was the good old days!
why the duck am i getting recommended this, i’m from saskatchewan
if i understood correctly, the students were convinced that they had won their case, right?
was it really 9 years ago?
tse, real social cause ...
criss that i miss this outpouring of revolutionary solidarity. note the young people who are sick of the status quo 🤷‍♂️
@matness upfront
i was there!
the good old times
hey it was at my party.
my university program in the faculty of social sciences had voted for the hike at the time ... colisse lol
best rubber bullet of my life kek
i was in 4th or 5th year at the time, pi i remember that 6th graders were demonstrating in the courtyard hahahah! it had piqued my interest and i had to ask my mother what was going on. i also remember that i have friends that their older sister / brother / parents brought to the demonstrations.
"so you fucking want to double your college tuition over 5 years?"
"yesss my tit pit, do your fair share. boé less beer, don't buy yourself a new iphone at half-hour twé and you should be correct. how much did your beautiful hat cost you? check in ontario there pay that's the price and they don't complain about it "
"so we are going to lower our taxes and our consumption taxes to match those of ontario, given that we will receive the services that it is supposed to give us these beautiful taxes? "
"nah. brb must i go the tender for the contract for cleaning the plastic plants in our offices hey y'a mon chu - i mean this independent company that submitted for $ 10,000 we will take them i think! oh yeah, and by the way the tuition tax credits will go from 20% to 8% cheers! "
* good it seems to have forgotten / not to be aware of the shot where we cut 100% of the grants in "loans and grants" and gave back about half in 2005. hope that student estates will be patient one day *
i don't want to be the working-class pissing guy, but it seems the government won anyway, according to mcswing.
i was there.
a cut in the education and abandoned concrete building, owned by uqam ... there is a lot of irony and disappointment in this photo ....
and .... caq.
it's been a long time, i was finishing my baccalaureate at the time.
in those times when 2 meters of distance did not exist 😅
ah, how things have changed. at that time the richardmartinists did not say that it was "hundreds of conspirators", they said that it was "hundreds of violent terrorists"
worse, it gave nothing osti because of our osti of fascist government
[deleted]
ok ... what exactly did it give? it's cool to demonstrate in the streets of montreal dressed as a female dog to jacques and smash things but what was the result?
even the pq that came to power after the protests did little to reduce school fees. maybe they thought it's crazy to protest for a few hundred raises
gnd is sitting at the chalet writing his revolutionary memoirs, the deputy's pension is not too far away.
quite a modern che, he was once called a conspiratorial and we hear more about him.
how lucky he is to bring a wind of youth and freshness to the assembly ...
9 years ago, when i left cegep to continue my studies in ontario in a private establishment.
[deleted]
and it was not sunny like that on march 22, 2012
i believe this was the one in may.
i remember the weather 9 years ago but not yesterday. is that aging?
edit: i just checked and i was wrong, [the weather was nice on march 22, 2012.] ( ps' weather underground ', i love the reference. real good old school far left, not like today's youth music
this is the photo on the wikipedia page on the demonstrations of this spring
i remember that we were super hot during the demonstration, to the point where when there was a little downpour we were really relieved. but indeed it is still too early for there to be leaves in the trees 🤔
we made steel thighs, the oxen bought chalets and boats
the twilight manifestations;)
i find it sad that you have to specify that you are not anti-feminist and sexist to share your experience as a man with us. it is not because you are a man that your situation is worth less than that of women.
encouraging residents to touch your ass is disgusting comment, it's encouraging sexual touching and it's like seeing you as a sex object.
have you tried to put limits on these pabs and nurses?
when you experience harassment at work and your union denies you, it's time to go to the kids at hr and if they don't listen to me, it's the kind of story that the media would like to be able to peddle .
i would tell you that the pabs / nurses you're talking about aren't super feminists either ... (when you're against rape culture, you're not just for girls all the time). there are people, guys and girls, who are still in a mononcle / matante spirit and who think it's ok ...
i have an agency in the dental field. women do more than men in hygienists, assistants and secretaries. salaries are the same for dentists.
a dental assistant on a facebook group made a post on pay equity ... with lots of likes, saying women in 2021 were still being fooled.
i wrote that women do 20-30% more on average in their field. she deleted my comment.
always watch out for "egalitarian" movements, people advocate for their own interests 90% of the time.
i find it sad that it's like that at your work. personally, i try to be extra careful with my male staff, because seriously, i really enjoy it when you take care of the creepy old uncle who has suddenly forgotten how to take care of his penis when dealing with women. and it also often brings another point of view of care. and often a nurse with a bucket works wonders when a patient doesn't want to listen.
and to ask the residents to touch your buttocks, seriously i would make a formal complaint to hr.
on the other hand, i hope you realize that for women, it's not bad like that all the time in all areas? i hope that makes you understand the big disgust they are going through?
(and yes, i admit very openly that imbecility has absolutely no gender. i have seen my fair share of nunuchs at the job, and a diploma does not always guarantee intelligence and integrity)
there is a process that exists for workers who believe they are poorly defended by their union.
[here] ( : text = when% 20d% c3% a9pose% 20a% 20plainte% 3f, its% 20devoir% 20de% 20juste% 20repr% c3% a9sentation.)
with regard to the remarks and the sudden touching on the part of your colleagues, it is called harassment and it is criminal.
sometimes you have to go there.
good luck for the future.
it gives your name a whole new meaning on reddit.
two weights, two measures. in my case, it's the fair distribution of spots that is problematic.
i have already faced a working college. she is in a male environment, but hardly ever physically works. our jobs consist of 50% paperwork and 50% physical labor. for almost 1 year, i have been doing all the physical work and her paperwork. basically, she spends these days in the air conditioning in front of her computer (and her phone) while i'm in the hot weather all alone.
one day, i decided to confront her in the man's room. there was no one there at the time. i told her i was unhappy, she literally climbed the curtains because she felt attacked. she defended herself by saying that it was super important that the paperwork job be done perfectly (in her own way) and that he just had her who knew how to do it. i accused him of not being able to do the arm job. she climbed the curtains even more accusing me of being sexist. i challenged her to lift the big labrador water bottle above her head 10 times in a row. what she refused to do.
subsequently, the union decided to without meddling by accusing me of causing trouble in the company. i said it wasn't them to take care of that. that if she had a problem with me that she deal with hr. what she did not do.
when i took my vacation this summer. another employee replaced me and he noticed the same thing. we made a complaint to hr but nothing happened. you've got a girl in the middle of guys ...
i made the story short, because it does a lot worse. theft of time, lying has its advantage, manipulation of events has its advantage, this yours stuck on the union representatives to be better protected and to be able to play these cards before others, denounce others in a subtle way in front of everyone, etc. seriously, i'm more capable of her.
if you only knew how well i understand you. i worked as an administrative agent in a small hospital when i was a student. i can't count the number of times i've gotten my ass rammed and made fat calls that would have been unthinkable if i had been a woman in a man's world.
for example, i work in the maternity department. a nurse told me in front of all her colleagues: "we're tired of seeing just nipples and nipples here. we're down for a tail. come and go to room 203 and we'll fix that for you."
i wasn't really traumatized by all of this. it just shook me in my values a bit, especially since a good gang of them were married and were subtly talking to me about having a lover. ah yes it's true, the woman who trained me on the phone literally asked me if i took mistresses ...
i'll let you draw your own conclusions. i'd have a lot to say, but i'm a white man too, so whatever i say i'm going to be the oppressor and it's going to be my fault. so i'm going to go back on my own to my little things, to my peaceful little life, away from all this shitshow woke.
omg, encouraging residents to hit us!
i had a long-term internship last year, and before arriving on the floor, i was warned: "madame so-and-so likes men a lot, if she * spots * you, expect some warning ". knowing that i arrive on a floor of people in cognitive loss, i suspect well the "attention" that it is likely to give me, and i am ready to divert the situation elsewhere.
arrived on the floor, mrs. so-and-so finds my internship supervisor who tells him in the distance that he is not alone and points to my general management (we agree, we are better to burst the absentee right away than i don't have * too much * problems if i have to intervene). i prepare myself mentally and, * lo and behold *, mrs. so-and-so is very * very * physical (the hand that goes through the sleeve of my shirt up to the shoulders to flatter me, the little caress on the buttocks, etc.). so i do what i should do: i gently take his hand to take it out of my shirt, explain to him that i'm here for work, and that his gesture is inappropriate.
madam, a little embarrassed at the time seems to understand (until next time, let's be honest). but just when i finished my speech, you have three nurses standing at the guard who say out loud: "yeah eh, mrs. so-and-so!" he is boring eh! well, he's just an embarrassed pett, don't worry ... ”.
like. wtf. she needs no encouragement to do and repeat the gestures she is doing, * she has no more inhibitions *, she somehow does not do much. the least you can do is not encourage her to tell her it's not her, it's me!
if i hadn't been on an internship, i would have inflated my chest during the scrum to explain that “let's see what it is”, but hey, i didn't have the necessary professional confidence yet i think.
"don't look with your human eyes"
she makes me laugh that one. ladies, we choose you with those same eyes.
it's serious what they make you endure. thanks for sharing. do not hesitate to bring up your union representatives.
feminists 3.0 talk a lot about toxic masculinity, but in my opinion, women are unparalleled experts in violent sexual remarks.
sexism against men is very present but so accepted that we don't see it anymore. already being sexually assaulted all the time like that is a good reason to sue your hospital / union if they know it and fuck all.
sorry to hear that and good luck. i just wanted to tell you nice nickname!
if you want and if you can, try to go to home care. it's much easier than it seems, my girlfriend is just telling me that the auxiliary nurses at the clsc have a lot of paperwork to fill out, but you will be on your own and face to face with clients.
calls the media, but "inadvertently" mixes the sexes. they're going to show up in record time (hey, a woman gets harassed and the union lets her down?!?), but once there, you just have to explain to them that a man is being harassed.
you don't have to justify yourself so much just to point out the sexism you experience in your work. let's say that with your first sentence i rolled my eyes, i thought the discussion was going elsewhere. but no, it is downright discriminatory what you live and you have the right to be angry about it, i imagine that the repetitive aspect of these behaviors must be even more frustrating. i really hope you can talk to your union about it and that they are listening. especially when it comes to sexual harassment and the lack of support for potentially dangerous situations. i have a friend who worked in a hospital and who sometimes had to deal with aggressive elderly people, got a good punch in the face of a 70 year old man, but he was really knocked out afterwards, it is really dangerous there.
this kind of double standard is disgusting. i'm so sorry you have to go through this. their values are not for equality of sons-in-law at work, but for being politically correct and looking good in public relations.
> i am for gender equity women deserve more rights
> here there is a double standard
if equity is the goal, then double standards are inevitable.
real equality of rights and opportunities does not require intellectual gymnastics. the results may take longer to achieve, but at least it's built on a foundation that no one can dispute and can therefore be firmly established over time.
i am a woman, i work as a nurse and i confirm your words. it's crazy how there are other women (matante) who always release borderline sexual harassment calls against men (that is to say our male colleagues, the police officers, the paramedics ...).
i had worked at a clsc and every time he had a man of good appearance, the matantes stuck their heads out of their desks and shouted: the carrots are done! (their code to say: ayoye girls is a hot man in the hallway). a little more and they cooed seeing them ...
it is completely inappropriate and filthy. i am happy not to be at this clsc anymore.
it reminds me of when i worked in a convenience store. i was one of the only boys and of course i was the one having fun all the time at night because of course, being a guy, it discourages burglaries and this even if i was the second oldest in seniority on the 10 employees. and yet, i experienced an armed robbery.
also, being one of the only young men in the dep, well the types of comments you get were the same kind:<on le sait ben toé té t'un homme tu sert a rien> , etc.
and finally, they took very familiar ways towards me and some of them started to hit my buttocks. it was the straw that broke the camel's back. from the first time, i told each of them that it was unacceptable and each time they laughed, because i don't know, for her i was a man so i must have liked it. i was 18 at the time, i told them what would you do if i started grabbing both breasts every time or grabbing your ass and they would answer me every time it wasn't there. same thing. so, i made it clear to them that an assault is not only directing towards women and that only my girlfriend had the right to touch me in this place with my consent and that it must stop now or otherwise i would wear complaint.
luckily they quit, but they found me a little weird to act that way. it's still a funny situation and that if it would happen in the opposite case, it would be unacceptable.
i understand your problem and today i am still very distant from other women.
force to you, it should not be easy!
you should record / film them when they encourage residents to touch you without your consent. we all know very well that if the tables were turned and a woman shared a video of her male colleagues acting that way the world would stop spinning and she would come to every good woman talk show esti to talk about it.
integrated sexism. i experienced a lot of it when i was working in events, a real magnet for mating… i have always let go, i remain a privileged north american white man so good… 🤷
the fact that you have to justify every word you use is a symptom of oppression. i stand in solidarity with you.
so look for another profession seriously ... my opinion in tk
feminism, despite the name, is for gender equality and not for the "supremacy" of the female sex. the name was just a little badly chosen and has not aged well. anyway, i think that makes you an excellent feminist. and like many feminists over time, you fight alone against goliath. but continue, the cause is just, the fight will never be lost and you will only improve the cause by your demands.
you are right that these behaviors and conditions are unacceptable, and anti-feminist. feminism advocates equality for all, it's not fair for women.
honestly? complain to your human resources or your union.
bro, i imagine the reaction if you told a nurse to think with your female brain. this is not the first time that famous modern feminists have had double standards.
> i point out, with all due respect, the sexism that i have and that i still live in my work on the fiq facebook group
>  
> result, i am banned from the facebook group
looks like that doesn't surprise me at all.
women who have double standards ... nnnnnoooonn we don't have that in quebec
the definition of feminism is equality between men and women. taking shape today with activism for more rights for women to reach the level of men. if a man is harmed because of his gender, that does not meet the definition of feminism. the man is not treated at the same level as the woman.
no need to specify that you are not anti-feminist. it is clear that you are and that you suffer prejudices because you are a man in a predominantly female profession.
seriously, we have a social problem where sexual assault against men is trivialized.
example: several years ago i was a porter and i have been a bodybuilder for 20 years. every evening, i got my butt stroked by drunk women who found it very "cute" that i was offended.
i, who every night, had to swear outside the guys who pinched the buttocks of the girls on the dance floor, the double standard was quite intense ...
spas on reddit you have to say that, it's up to your hr and your union
ok i'm just going to let your username with your post make me laugh (i support you, i don't say its to thrash your post)
you are 100% right to want to talk about it and you are 100% right that you live with sexism. this is unacceptable and things must change.
having said that, i think the problem stems from the context in which you chose to speak about it. i guess the page admins saw your comment as "whataboutism" (which is generally used to discredit the experiences of women).
however, i encourage you to continue in your efforts.
we will tell you the same thing as about racism, there is no anti-male sexism. only women can be victims of sexism.
he seems to have nothing but bad advice and opinions.
here is what you should do:
1 - keep temporary silence. continue to work as if nothing had happened.
2 - record, record, record. collect your evidence. talk to a lawyer about what you can do to establish evidence.
3 - approach your union. don't show your evidence. talk to them about your problem. continue to record and accumulate evidence.
if nothing is done, by your union, hire a lawyer, go around the media and get compensated.
you will have enough money to change careers or live comfortably for a few years. it will inevitably have a change for the next generation. on the other hand, there is a good chance that you are "crossed out" of the trade.
money is the only language these entities understand.
you see the other side of the coin of what they experience.
but instead of being all compassionate, some impose on you the same cries of stupid silliness, reversed, from time to time.
keep throwing the ball back at them, always putting them in the center of the opposite situation.
relying on people's empathy sometimes / often works ... but when you want the message to come across for real and right away, there is nothing better than forcing the other to see things as if he had to face it himself.
be polite, however, and always clearly on humorous grounds and always with people who can understand the context ... for example, you should never *** never *** that there is someone who thinks you are actually suggesting to patients banging nurses ass.
go to the media.
i am 100% agree with you, good luck !!
they are not feminists, your colleagues. they have a very pronounced bias and arguably reinforced by decades of harassment in their own job that turns the pendulum on * the other side *, but that's not feminism. i encourage you to share this experience without using the word feminism itself as you describe a serious problem at the heart of a job that has been so gendered. it's pocket-sized but even the french language is like that and speaking in neutral is a semantic feat, yet we are at the time when it would be useful in osti. what you are experiencing there is unacceptable. it must be denounced and denounced loud and clear with those who are going through the same thing. you really are not alone.
and yes, the woke company is only going one way unfortunately. it's the same when immigrants make racist comments about whites (i'm an immigrant so i hear all kinds of things believe me). being a white man looks really bad these days.
ah the old gaylord focker dilemma... props to you for being a nurse and helping people, hope you'll find solace soon
coliss it's hard. for the little good it can do, we're not all feminists like that and it's unacceptable and you should file complaints. what saddens me the most is that i know that you are not the only one. good luck.
which ciusss do you work for? in my corner it looks like it's 50/50 precisely.
if we are really looking to find more nurses (i doubt it, in reality the government does not want any but ....)
so it might be a solution to make the job more attractive to men.
the auxiliary nursing profession is already in dire need in quebec, if i were you, i would reorient myself just to kick the already dying horse a little.
well i tell myself that on the other hand i enjoy a good privilege. in return, i receive fewer threats and blunt insults. uses don't intimidate me. girls don't piss me off because i'm a guy like them piss off between them. worse, basically, to collect a paycheck and take care of my patients. sexism is bad, but the worst part is the racism of some of my colleagues.
i experienced this form of discrimination, and i faced it by acting flamboyantly around these people. they assume that i am gay and they stop seeing me as a man who can be freely abused. it's terrible, but it works. only one person asked me about my sexuality and i immediately complained to hr. be creative!
on the other hand, her sister cannot stay in bed.
he should have kept the curfew 2 more weeks to make it look less / s
i say, no one is going to his party. it'll teach him.
lift it now, my birthday is tomorrow mf. i want to go camping.
i believe it.
a chance that wikipedia knows his wife
bbq at mononcle legault?
it's may 28 the lifting of the curfew
hahaha
cheeky guy
... i mean my birthday is also may 26th i don't know if i should be happy i share her birthday or not. somehow the curfew went away this weekend, not gonna be mad with this.
we agree that yes it coincides with his birthday, but it also coincides especially with the vaccination which is progressing enormously and the number of cases which has reached ~ 500 per day.
do you really think that the guy at his age is celebrating his birthday? ...
source du tweet svp?
its starts on may 28 and not on the 26
yes. because the person who was the most annoyed was the person with the most power in the country… / s
happy cake day en passant.
oh don't worry, after 4-5 martinis she won't have the choice to stay asleep ...
2 weeks less would have done it.
ma give her a gift card from korvette.
you can already go camping, you just have to be one family and stay on your property after curfew.
happy birthday!
same my bday is tomorrow too! happy bday :)
you should go camping anyway.
happy bday!
his sister?
the 26th is a wednesday, often people celebrate the following weekend.
it's a joke.
stune joke .. i don't know if he's partying and honestly i don't care. i won't make a fuss about anything that i can't verify and just theorize.
it's very unimportant, it's a meme
there is another comment that said it earlier but the 26th is a wednesday, people often celebrate the weekend
do you think girls get wet reading your unsolicited patches?
254-6011
that*
in the country lol
caliss shouldn't laugh often at you
just once at the chalet ...
too generous, i have an old gift card for radio shack dating like 2005, i can give him.
what do you do if you feel like shitting at 2 am?
niice! happy birthday!
happy bday!
thanks!
it makes sense, then normally measures like that are lifted on mondays, why lift this one on friday.
more than the curfew, there are also gatherings allowed on private outdoor grounds on the same date.
it's going to party that weekend!
some people don't take it like a joke, they really believe it's our megalomaniac dictator's plot.
i'm glad you know.
sometimes we don't really know anymore ...
i'm on twitter quite a bit and was interested in seeing the account and maybe following it. how weird are downvotes ??
even if it is not very important, sometimes it is fun to know who it is, to follow it or just for the context ...
[one of the sources] (
i would have to make memes
thank you!! omg xd
maybe i should correct his homophone in this case
the pays d'en hauts
this is how we reduce dropping out!
since the dawn of time,...
i say that subject brought should have been the field, and he should also have a baked potato and mashed potatoes in the divided subject
in the first place,
second,
it is a question of inflating the number of words as much as possible in order to have the right to more parties and to pass the euf just below the maximum number of faults.
if you are not on [the fb leads page] ( you are missing something.
(scroll down, the newer ones are the less funny.)
is there a new nomenclature or i forgot this bottle from my high school (95 @ 2000)
r/hailcorporate
it's valuable that their food isn't as good as their social media manager
if only valentine could invest as much time on their food (which i find appalling) as they do on their ads ....
digested subject
i didn't know valentine was still in business ...
it’s too much of the high ideological sphere of memoir writers for me.
i have understood.
it just made you a little hungry.
"man has always felt emotions. besides, the narrator of baudelaire's text is sad."
the historical gap is not bad.
since man is man
"since the dawn of humanity, man has always \ [... \]"
the field is the equivalent of "since the dawn of time ..." in my opinion
precisely, valentine are doing it on purpose so that you take your exam and drop out of school to go and work for them.
[deleted]
thank you very much for the discovery it's amazing
these days, i often fall into a rabbit hole after clicking a link in reddit.
i did my high school at the same time as you and we saw that. it's not of the first importance, we agree, so if you forgot ... i teach it in cegep and it's not a given either. we avoid at most the: "hello, in the following essay ..."
these are the three parts of an introduction, you must have forgotten because it was that too at the time.
outcome. conclusion.
"in the beginning the universe was created. this angered many people and was considered a bad idea."
ate potates
“since the world became a world, plants have grown in the earth. one of them, the potato, has been cultivated by humans for thousands of years. first domesticated by the amerindians, then brought back to europe by 16th century explorers, it is now used as the basis for a host of very popular dishes, such as poutine, shepherd's pie and the baked potato that accompanies the chinese fondue. "
no, but for the analogy! need more than a subject in your divided subject!
no but you can mash your french fries it makes mashed french fries
me, i am no longer capable of "since the beginning of time" or "since man has existed" or "there have always been wars ..."
it's funny, we have been rehashing this method throughout my high school and even part of cegep so that my teacher finally tells us (i think for the uniform test) the last year "oue bah in fact it is not obligatory to organize a trial this way, it was just to teach you the best practices lol "
i haven't used it since.
i am starting university in french this fall. is it that bad to start with “in this essay, i'm going to…”? that's how i wrote my work in english during my baccalaureate, then it was accepted.
in other words, nobody cares about complex introduction if research is on point. i thought the three-part intro was mostly for high school students who are still learning to organize their thoughts. i certainly don’t see such introductions in academia (at least, in english).
opening.
42!
that, you see, i would have more pleasure to read this, because * hitchhiker's guide *, it is the genesis of many subsequent reading pleasures.
a+
i feel like i'm reading a news article that talks about something vaguely related to potatoes
every fry is a subject
> since man has existed "
"since the birth of the novel", in my case.
what do you say about "from a good butt"?
he was not really right, there, it remains a winning recipe and what we are talking about here is the introduction only (sa, sp, sd): it is quite logical to proceed in this way for a job, an article, an essay, etc.
as for the ufe, he was absolutely not right, because it is part of sub-criterion 4, part 4.1: the three parts in question here are named like that, they are asked and evaluated.
type "uniform french proof criteria", in the second link (this is a pdf), page 26 of the document.
well, listen, it depends on the work, but an introduction, it serves to introduce the work, precisely, so it involves a little contextualization, it serves to locate the reader (subject brought) who is about to talk to you. read to know the question to be answered (subject asked) and what will be said in general (subject divided). starting directly with your divided subject (which you gave as an example) is a bit rough. it doesn't seem terribly complex to me, a three-part introduction.
we also avoid writing "i" in several academic works, also: we favor objective writing (it depends once again on the type of work requested).
i don't think this is a difference between english and french, as english colleagues (at college) teach the equivalent and work that i consulted for research that was written in english had introductions as well. i didn't do many courses completely in english, but the few assignments i handed in required introductions or the equivalent. there may be variations, of course, in the items requested and the importance of each. my thesis introduction was nearly ten pages long (for a work of 180 pages), for example: we agree that i did not do ten pages of subject matter, hehe!
underrated comment
6*9!
37% ? holy shit
don't let go of the gang, it's moving faster than anything we could have seriously hoped for
québec vaccinated esti!
now 37% of the population is vaccinated ...
people in general seem satisfied with the performance of the last few days ... the average daily vaccination (** 3,218,214 ** doses administered as of yesterday).
su made vaccinated yesterday with my girlfriend !!!!!! : d
asti that we are happy !!!
so looking forward to it being my girlfriend and i's turn next week. i will refresh you this site often on sunday to make an appointment!
wow, imagine if we had djs in the clinics
#checkmate antivaxxx!!!
[deleted]
seen from france, i have only one thing to say: bravo 👏!
esti if the cases can calm down in estrie ...
i have my training to be a vaccinator next tuesday, i can't wait to help out and live this experience!
and during this time, my sister-in-law and her boyfriend (30f and 26g) "are not sure" to be vaccinated. they are ** very ** skeptical about the efficacy of the vaccine.
it happened too quickly and there is not enough scientific evidence in their opinion.
calm, i'm out of ideas with them!
check ben the government is going to say that it takes two doses before having a deconfinement.
wait 37% received both doses? or just 1?
are these numbers real? if so, let’s go boys! this summer, life and liberty could be back on the menu!!
majority vaccines !!!
with numbers like that we will regain our freedom 🗽😁
hey, let's hope we use this to finally have a functioning health system
small reminder to all vaccinated: it takes 2 to 4 weeks to build your immunity! act accordingly, now is not the time to be neglectful, as much for others as for yourself.
so 18.5% of the way, 4 more times and we will be close!
long live vaccinated quebec! 💉
long live vaccinated quebec !!!!
i'm in the 25 and over age group and my girlfriend is just below.
i hesitate between going to be vaccinated before her to taunt her by being vaccinated or to wait for my appointment at the same time as she sees that i am lazy and that she will bring me there.
considering that i represent no danger for the population by being an incredible no-life
long live vaccinated quebec!
it's finally a light at the end of the tunnel. we seem to be on our way to winning the famous “race against variants”. both my parents and my grandmother are vaccinated and it was a great relief. except that i'm still afraid of what it will look like in ~ 2 weeks with the esti de demo des tarlas de québec standing.
i still don't know how i can get mine.
46 years old, fuck it, we roll the dice and i'll take my astrabloodclottica, aweille, let's go.
but i can't, i check the site ceaselessly, every site that offers az for people my age who don't have other medical problems, zero available for online referrals or whatever.
one appeared the other day far away on the south shore, man, i don't have a car in theory at least, i work full time the heavy night in a bar and i don't have the slightest of idea when i'm going to work or not because our lives run on niaseries like schedules or stability, apparently.
so i have to keep taking my chances because on the date, no fucking covid here, so it's going to be okay?
i have a migraine
are you a symptom of that?
no, no covid, but existensial fatigue? yes possible
people are shouting loudly that we are starting to be vaccinated, but i would remind you that technically we are halfway vaccinated since a single dose is not enough to stop the bleeding.
yeah, but there were 250 million people at the montreal demo!
i'm not going to get vaccines. i give you the chance to change my mind
worse after everyone is vaccinated: another confinement just because it tempts them lol
especially if it is really 37% of the entire population and not of the population that can receive the vaccine (young people who must represent 15-20% of the population), that would mean that almost half of adults have it. would be, and this just as we start to bring down the age.
[deleted]
[deleted]
vaccines, covid, po'l time to die
q
correction: 37% of the population received a dose.
nice! have you stopped wearing your mask?
not too much anyway, you're going to * crash *.
take the opportunity to spot the vaccination sites where there is room as early as possible.
if they could install the kinds of instagram "photo booths" for young people, and a life-size image of guy lafleur for the older still recalcitrant, we would quickly reach 100%
i went for takeout at a jamaican restaurant this sunday and there was a ti-mister dj. it was very nice.
hahaha, indeed, cursed checkmate !! be careful, on the other hand, there seems to be more than you think in this sub. 😅
the stats from israel show a significant decrease in infections towards 45-50% vaccination and we have more of the more resistant variant here (so our% will have to be higher than that), so we are on the right track but we are really not yet made it.
significantly deconfining now would almost inevitably cause another wave.
we are almost there, would be stupid to drop the ball so close to the goal. there is like a haircut of weeks only before being at significant rates
in my opinion, the measures will not be massively relaxed as long as we do not come down in a number of cases similar to what we could have last summer (under 100 cases), regardless of the vaccination rate. it should nevertheless not be forgotten that a portion of the population will not be vaccinated (either by medical necessity, by bad choice or by children).
edit: worse still, the more i think about it, the more i tell myself that it's not that simple.
1) a single dose does not provide immunity, and even after a 2nd dose approximately 70% of the population must have had a dose for the measurements to be truly relaxed at all times for the "immune".
2) the health system is still overloaded in several regions, hence the continuity of measures.
3) quebec is doing better now than anywhere else in canada. perhaps we should end up recognizing that the curfew is probably for something?
\ -you have to be vaccinated, it is very important
\ - nothing is done as long as the vulnerable population is not 100% vaccinated
\ -ok we do not touch anything, as long as the working population is not vaccinated at 75%
\ -ok we must continue to be careful. we know that the first dose is not that effective, we do not touch anything until the second dose is given
i place my bet on any variant that will require a 3rd dose. somewhere in august / september.
75% to be "safe"
95% to almost eradicate the covid.
the problem is that there are like 20-25% of the population who may not want the vaccine.
yawn.
a map ? what plan? you know very well that the government manages this day to day without taking too many notes.
they cannot be held responsible for respecting their deconfinement plan if they do not have a deconfinement plan. legault playing 4d chess.
probably just because russian uses the cyrillic alphabet and transliterates the sound.
sorry for the serious response to your gossip.
because too much poutine gives biden!
more seriously, it's probably because his real name in russian is written with the cyrillic alphabet and the conversion rules differ between english and french to have a writing that corresponds to the pronunciation.
because the russian president's birth name is влади́мир влади́мирович пу́тин. and in the french-speaking media, it is confusing.
why do we say boston, but we say washington and houston.
because russian is not written with our alphabet. we must therefore translate into english or french. his real name is no more putin than putin. biden, that's his real name. that is all.
biden, baïd'n (api [ˈbaɪdn̩]). this is how it is pronounced in english. the "n" is a [syllabic consonant] ( like, just exactly like * bitten *, * ridden *, * hidden *.
bédaine… not even close to the english pronunciation.
i am a francophone i supposed that in order not to confuse with whore and the name of whore we write poutine 😅
it's more "baïdenne" than "bédaine", but hey, i know, it's a joke.
because the endings in -ин are translated to -ine in english:
yuri gagarin
aleksandr ovetchkine
vladimir poutine
it also makes me laugh how we call joe biden "joe" when his name is indeed "joseph r. biden".
it wouldn't occur to us to say:
* frank legault
* ju trudeau
* manu macron
* yf blanchet
* steph harper
officially
* chez ben ons s'boure la biden *
president bédaine and poutine ... aahahah!
because biden pronounces it bye den. putin in russian that translates poo'tin.
to be able to be published on r / quebec
putain vs bedaine
here is the real serious answer:  % c3% 80% 20start% 20by% 20le% 20name, in% 20la% 20langue% 20de% 20shakespeare. & text = from% 20toute% 20% c3% a9vidence% 2c% 20les% 20deux, russian% 20 uses% 20the alphabet% 20cyrillic .
because it's for-biden.
the russian alphabet is not the same as the latin alphabet?
maybe because in french, it looks like fucking ...
joe bédaine! mdr! jo + bedaine. uhuh. 5 years of mental age.
i never understood it.
why didn't sakou koïvou write so much?
it's the same in sports. in hockey there are plenty of them, you just have to summon pierre houde to have the correct pronunciation in french.
lol
joe bidoune?
looks like a wordpress site made by a teen lol media
me all week i heard them say "the top 'pot belly-poutine'" and i found it quite ironic that these two poor children can not get along ...
joe bedon
donald trump?
bedaine
with his full name in addition: joe robinette bédaine
ti-joe bédaine!
anecdote: as a child, i thought that the founder of scouting, baden powell, was called bedaine power.
i have been asked a question several times if i like poutin and how i find him. i am russian by the way. well yes, i love it and i appreciate it a lot! the one with bacon or smoked meat.
should use the french part of biden's name, robinette. 😂
joke aside, i guess putin is translated to make sure no one says that "damn"?
because putin would pronounce "putain" in french?
at joe's we bother the bédaine?
or just use his french name: joseph robinet.
internet translations usually make me cringe (what do we say about that), but cacaposting is really fucking funny.
i think there is still some seriousness in his post because it remains a good question. but you are right with your answer.
if my information is correct the real reason why putin is written poutine in french was the desire to avoid a homophone with whore, because the french would obviously have had a blast.
but by avoiding a homophone in france they created one in quebec.
《vladmir》 though. this one they have no excuses.
thank you. i've always wondered this.
the cyrillic alphabet in the end corresponds to the latin alphabet except that the different symbols, with bonus symbols (not in putin / путин) and different symbols for the accents. pronounced in french "biden" is no closer to the original word than "putin". i don't know why we translate names, but not others, except that it is not the alphabet in question. (ex. [russian] ( and [serbo-croatian] (
my * guess * as a slightly stoned guy would be that putin -> poutine translates well, you add two letters (which doesn't really add a new sound to the word just modulate) and it's beautiful. biden -> baïdeune (?), it's crisp milk. in my opinion we should stop translating proper names, that i see one making my last name phonetically adequate!
thank you
well no see, "bnadnmnp bnaanmnpobnh nytnh" quin, easy!
hmmmmmm пу́тин
ok!
the french get on my nerves a bit to say "bostonne" but i admit that it makes more sense.
i took a trip to boston, and the guide explained that quebecers are the only people in the world to pronounce it like that, and that it would have been popularized by a hockey commentator who pronounced it like that, at the time when 100% of the population listened to hockey on the radio.
reddit is a platform that promotes the creation of echo chambers. the karma system ensures that you are rewarded for expressing an opinion that is along the same lines as the majority, and that you are at a disadvantage if you express the opposite opinion. when you don't match the majority, you leave the sub where you are in the minority, creating an even stronger majority. this system is just bad.
become ??? it has always been like this!
it is bq during federal elections and a mixture of qs and pq during provincial elections. there is just less of the same during the provincial elections.
[deleted]
in a cegep association room it would look more like / r / ndp but yes it's true that it does a lot of echo chamber.
it is indeed deeply unpleasant. i gave up the idea of commenting until the election. if i dare say something against yfb or the bloc my 70,000 karma is going to go through it lol.
edict: i want to clarify that the example of karma was just a joke. i don't care about my karma that much. besides, if i wanted to, i would comment on other subs than where i do it and more than 1 comment every few days lol. hey there.
is this your first election on reddit?
the mainstream of this sub has always had a fairly obvious penchant for separatism, and stands above all in opposition (too often hostile, in my opinion) in english-speaking canada with relatively little nuance. the bloc is by far the favorite of this current and has always been.
100% agree with you if i still see a "majoritary bloc" i open my veins
always has been
it's over, hold on.
considering that quebec in general votes more bloc québécois than any other party, i consider that normal.
personally, politically speaking i am not suuuper aligned with the bloc, but i find the exchanges well ben ben correct here so i would not say that the environment is unpleasant.
and when we posted pictures of cats, the world complained too. ride the wave baby and you won't drown.
ahhh, after all i'm not crazy. i even saw a topic almost glorifying the flq pass. no jokes.
if only the bloc majorettes of this sub had a political acuity that extended beyond blind partisanship and the grannies of yves-françois blanchet who looks '' male ''.
asso de cégep indeed.
it's part of the folklore of this sub, i'm not for the bloc personally but i find it funny. i can recognize an airquebecois anywhere just with a blocmajoritaire. and as a bonus, it balances a bit with what is said / r / canada otherwise any entire reddit will be / r / antiblocquebecois
but i understand that it can be annoying, but it's temporary. we will very quickly come back to the photos of cats and tank plates (unless justin decides to relaunch new erections)
there are a lot of ndp voters on r / quebec as well.
it will become qs again after the federal election, just to wait another week.
people make memes about things that interest / entertain them and post here because they belong. instead of asking them not to do something that is within the rules of the sub, make some posts yourself on other topics. encourage and participate when it's captivating, ignore when it's the same.
yeah, but isn't that just part of the fun here? it is more like a meme than actual support.
i am an anglo, but even i have posted: 'bloc majoritaire', a few times because it is funny!
/ r / quebec is essentially / r / independantists
the memes of blocmajoritaire, it is made ordinary in cursed according to me.
coming from someone who is going to vote bloc (and for the first time).
but yes, r / quebec is an echo chamber. once i dared to say that i was not in accordance with law 21, i can tell you that i got negotiated quite clearly.
at the same time, we live in the era we live in, everyone has a black or white idea, it's not often that you see a nuanced statement anywhere (unfortunately me included)
not our fault if no one is excited about federalism and the parties associated with it
no, it's just that those who are crimson block are more active these last days.
you could have said 6 months ago, "has / r / quebec become / and / antimesuresanitaireqc"
it goes and it comes.
majority ndp! (made change a bit: 3)
astroturfing is a real problem.
too late i already voted bq
> it's frankly unpleasant, i have the impression of being in an association room at cegep.
reddit favors echo chambers. personally i do not see the difference between that and when we only talk about qs proposals on this sub.
this applies perfectly to my situation with the bloc
[  
when i think of voting for another party, the other parties give us a backseat and send me back to the bloc.
this sub is pure draining. final point.
this post became r / antiblocquebecois.
it is frankly unpleasant, i have the impression of being in a room of federalists.
a little rough but i understand that what you denounce is partisanship, the lack of nuances as well as the closure on the different points of view and i can only agree with you.
i like reddit because you can read both funny and satirical comments but also good opinions, but i admit that since the start of the campaign, i read less and less authentic comments (in the meaning of personal opinion developed taking into account the fact that it is not superior to that of others).
i hardly read civic exchanges there anymore that allow me to question my own pre-conceived ideas.
i have the same impression, but as an english speaker from ontario i never get involved in the debates.
i find the bloc majoritaire memes very funny but i vote npd anyway (because i'm a "single" issue voting for 2-3 things).
we almost all developed a more nationalist moment in our life. i believed in it when jean-martin aussant created on. his plan seemed to me to be well put together and i told myself that he had the background to carry it out.
today, nobody inspires me the confidence that he could carry out a project of independence. for this reason, my beliefs have shifted towards the objective of producing a strong quebec in a strong canada. on the other hand, i have much more progressive values than what the bloc displays, so no, i will not vote for them.
unfortunately everything that is quebec on the web must be requisitioned by the péquistes… sad
it's just politics here that's what annoys me.
moderators should delete pro bloc or other shit posts. it is the quebec subreddit, not the bloc subreddit. it's made tiring.
hahhahahha, that's exactly how i describe r / quebec to my friends, it's the cegep association.
i think it's just because we are in the elections that it seems more. on the other hand, i admit that as soon as we criticize the block, it is downvoted directly.
it's a gigantic circle jerk fueled by political party comm teams, fuck that.
no, but for a real majority block it's just a meme and it was the same thing in 2019.
blt
> i have the impression of being in a cegep association room.
i tell myself the same thing when i read the posts and comments of users looking for validation for having been vaccinated, having voted, complaining about the minimum wage, complaining about their quality of life (while they are still studies), etc.
i will never vote for the bloc, i find that there is no point in the federal government apart from dividing the votes more.
always summer. it's not great as a subreddit.
[deleted]
considering that your complaint is the most posivotated thread of the day and that the most posivotated comments you have received are from editors who prove you right, i would say it's not so bad.
> i have the impression of being in a cegep association room.
if only the cegep associations were still bloc members ...
honestly, why does the bloc québécois exist at the federal level? nothing at all against sovereignties, but is it not clear that a party with the word québécois in its name will never win in a federal election? do we participate to lose?
ahahah! yes but like tell air quebec has always been ultra separatist and very strongly leftist. nothing new here. check the band logo reddit .. that should tell you when you leave.
once you accept this, you become functional on air sth.
it is especially since the english-speaking debate, with the more than awkward question of the moderator to the leader of the bloc. otherwise it was mostly a meme before. and hey, 40% of quebec would say yes to separation in another referendum so we should not be surprised.
that said, perceptions can be misleading. i personally find the sub is anti-vaccine brigaded but a post from the last few days was asking why the sub has nothing but pro-vaccine opinions. obviously this editor and i had different perceptions lol.
> '' i'm on the left and progressive, but on the right economically '' - an average reddit.
til steve buscemi works at mcdonald's
when i think of the elderly who have very little income from old age pensions after having sweated 40 years of their life working in 'shops' or minimum wage jobs.
canada is rich
canadians are poor
i am a french subscriber to / r / quebec because i find it refreshing, your way of expressing yourself and of speaking, and i am quite fed by the atmosphere of / r / france etc ...
but there are posts like that or for a second i have a doubt.
my sympathies, on the other side of the atlantic.
much more housing needs to be built.
i mean, renting your main residence in the short term doesn't increase the rental supply and therefore lower the price of housing?
as an owner of rental housing, i find it heartbreaking and distressing the state of the real estate and housing market. to me, i believe that every job has a role to fill in society. our role is to invest in real estate (i'm not talking about people who just have a bachelor's degree to rent on the side, i'm talking about people who do that with their lives). one of the reasons (not the main one) for the increase in rents and the value of housing is the lack of supply. we are not building enough for our income. of course, if i just buy already built plexes, it doesn't help with the offer. and demand is constantly growing, and many are leaving the metropolis to settle in the suburbs since prices are too high in the city, and this necessarily leads to an increase in prices. richer townspeople who sell their condos and walk away with $ 300,000 in the bank can afford to participate in the many bidding on suburban properties. yes, it could be built, but it is not their responsibility, they can buy and live there wherever they want! it's up to investors like me to step up our development projects. building, when you have the funds, it pays off. not everyone can build themselves, far from it. the government should put measures to encourage investors to build new homes. that we increase the tax rate on rental income for those who have more than 2 dwellings (currently at 20% max if it is in a company), that we give tax credits with a construction quota for real estate entrepreneurs. stop international investment in real estate (i don't know if this is a problem in quebec, but it definitely is in bc).
marci good evening!
i started to rage, but then i read:
it's really fair for the main one, and you can't have just one.
we have to help people come together in co-ops and make them responsible while sharing the profits.
> rent their * main residence *.
this means that the person must live there for it to be declared as a primary residence. it's not: i buy a condo / house but i only rent it for the short term.
as much as there are problems with that, we are targeting the wrong person.
[deleted]
welcome to the wonderful world of liberalism.
am i the only one who thinks that a mcdonald's is not an essential service?
that's not the grandma's important point, but still important.
be careful, you will attract the wrath of the fanatics of the sect of accountants and administration people.
the lack of regulations regarding money laundering in real estate, foreign buyers as well as a lack of supply are all factors contributing to this rise in housing costs. we need to build more, and more densely, in addition to trying to limit foreign buying. and finally, put more regulations and do more monitoring to counter money laundering.
ahh the annuitants .. these economic parasites
scusez chu con, what does the last frame mean?
i am pab and lucky i bought in 2007 because i couldn't afford my house today.
how would banning it help steve, minimum wage better get by? real question
eat the rich <3
we are on facebook
abolish the owners
yeah i dont speak surrender
we are targeting the wrong people i think. it is not the rich who will want to rent their main residence on airbnb, it is the people who are struggling to pay their mortgage ...
"i have good feelings and a semblance of morality, but don't count on me to make any effort."
"on the right economically" is generally a somewhat clumsy way of saying that we want more rigor in the management of public funds. finally, this is what i perceive in the people around me.
or the famous “i am from the real left, not the identity left which forgets the workers. [...] what ? raise the minimum wage? ban airbnbs? stop complaining, we are one of the most affordable places in north america! "
it's virtue signaling, we have good feelings as long as we don't pay
faq a liberal?
i say i'm in the middle so i can piss on both sides of the fence.
how dare they be qualified. dogs. ^^^ / s
luckily it's rarely the other way around ...
lol
and he is also at the caq
lol
and jean luc mongrain for the caq
the bourgeoisie and the government are rich, not the canadians.
canada is not rich. he's screeching in debt and so are the canadians (not the hockey club, they're chill, they're just screeching bad)
* boomers are rich
a doubt about?
i love france languedoc-provence- midi-pyrénée
you're right to doubt, it's bad good and it misses its target. i do not understand why there are so many votes. surely irony.
and not esti of 3.5
made accommodations for families.
we must also change the zoning laws
they ensure that the only profitable thing to build in density takes the form of luxury condo towers
it is also necessary to withdraw power from the municipalities in matters of town planning to counter nimbyisme (** n ** ot ** i ** n ** m ** y ** b ** ack ** y ** ard). it would probably be necessary to force quotas of 5 1/2, 6 1/2 and even 7 1/2 and 8 1/2 for families and large collocations
we can't force developers to build at a loss at a time, but we can change the rules so that cheaper housing is profitable to build
otherwise, there is a huge amount of money in circulation right now, people are putting their excess where they want to maximize their investment. real estate values are extremely profitable in canada; we have a situation where a home is both an essential need and a speculative value. we could tax more companies that rent residential real estate to the point where it would become more profitable to put your money elsewhere (stocks, commercial and industrial real estate, etc.)
there is currently a shortage of building materials
in places other than the city center
they're building some, except that it's 1300+ / month housing and they call it * rental condos *.
as if it could not be a beautiful apartment, new, clean, but modest so that it is more affordable ...
“i own a lot big enough to make a block of 36 doors, why would i make 3 million with it when i could make 8?”
... :(
or more simply we kill 50% of the world. even the idea to thanos wasn't that bad after all.
who do you think should build this?
or use the empty houses of the rich and the owners ...
you would have told me it's norway and i would have believed you.
bin yes, that's for sure. it hides the true state of the roads
photo by @sdidonato
is the slide cleared of snow?
are you the little guy who says hello?
big snow you mean. keep me the snowflakes!
cristi that's beautiful
super beautiful! do you know where it is
it's cute! but it is dla marde has itch!
why a sign in the middle of the street? i
titus?
i confess that i hate winter and snow.
but the other day, i found myself thinking that quebec, without snow, wouldn't really be quebec. this winter is what forged our country and our resilience, i believe so.
wait until brown comes, we'll talk about it again.
this is the beautiful quebec xd
no
it is beautiful in the sky, but not on the ground.
criss of mustard
if only quebec looked like this
her mouth holes
where is it?
no, it's behind the camera; to see it, turn around.
eh not
after 5-10 minutes of research i found it. it is a cul-de-sac alley at the foot of a staircase that leads to sherbrooke street. more precisely, the simone-monet-chartrand park (1803, rue st-christophe).
dead end stun
i don't know why your comment made me laugh so much ... i needed something harmless like that, that sounds!
it's in quebec ... 😂👌🏻
don't you know your province?
these rue st christophe at the bottom of rue sherbrooke in montreal. there are stairs that connect the 2 streets.
are you taking the picture first?
2117 rue st-christophe. 1803 it's too far south
we are going in the right direction.
oh no, i credited the photographer in the comments.
>@sdidonato
ah well yes, look at that! thank you, i had not seen. i went to see his instagram: wow! the guy takes really nice pictures! thank you for sharing.
phew, i thought he was referring to françois legault.
holy shit the force is strong in gnd hahahahaha
i like qs and i don't frequent this subreddit very much, but i was expecting lots of anti-qs comments and i'm pleasantly surprised, thanks for the reddit smile! :)
hahahaha, oh wow the shade
hahahahahhahahahaha nice fuckin one
burn
it was funny
i love his podcast "the dangerous ideas committee"
hello excuse me, what does "frencher" mean? does that mean ba * ser?
the moment reddit.
to wèwè bonjùèr
imagine if it was catherine dorion who had kissed one of her brothers after his victory and that simon jolin-barette would have made the same joke ... there would probably have been a star wars.
shabby and pathetic. we are really in the baseness of the american political style, which necessarily augurs well for a bright future for our country. i had already decided that i had voted for qs for the last time but they are outbid quite a bit. don't forget to hang out on the negavote button because hahaha mdr legault and his sister, don't you?
they are made low level as well?
that says all their actions and comments
(cringe)
wow! things are happening in politics in quebec! debates of ideas! oratorical games! deep thoughts on our collective future!
goodbye sub de marde, caqueux and wokeux mononcs!
small policy.
this is the joke
reference;
# françois legault gives a beak to his sister's mouth
[
also
i thought about the same.
yes.
seriously. i'm starting to warm up to him.
if i remember correctly, the last census on the political affiliation of the members of this sub showed that the majority aligned with qs. on the other hand, my memory may be playing tricks on me.
it is a sub pro qs here however, there is little room for debate concerning them here. which is a shame
uh, it's more than if you vote for another part that you get destroyed here.
frencher: kissing on the mouth, language set included.
snog!
to kiss. spout on the mouth.
it's more ~~ sexism ~~ different reactions depending on the sex of the person than politics in this case, i'm sure that dominique anglade, manon massé or danielle mccann who french their brothers would not have had the same reaction as legault who french his sister.
i don't understand pkoi it shocks you. it was not in parliament there. you haven't gone to the press to tell that either.
yes it is sure that it remains public on fb, but there is also a context there.
legault, he ate it all round you his sister, it was just funny. the "word game" with skywalker and star wars was just funny too.
it has already happened that the world laughs because of a well-placed fart. the day that is how he is going to be in politics, we will have a problem. this is just not the case.
what is really cringe is kissing his sister on the mouth.
do you want deep thoughts? here: 
there are not so many debates of ideas possible anyway, between a caq which governs by emergency measures and gag order and columnists who cry woke endlessly
is it supposed to be sarcasm or do you not know the unfolding of quebec politics?
politicians do not have the right to a social life and to drop out when its on social networks?
i will miss you :( me someone who makes a poo comment, gets 30 downvotes and then insults the whole sub because he is frustrated, it's my lil pleasure on reddit. i hope to see you again
it's not an airport, you don't have to tell us you're leaving.
but bye there!
found the caquiste!
he speaks some english, but he french with the family.
reference: star wars episode 5.
the quebecor empire strikes back!
honestly i never really understood why so many people seem to hate him.
the the propaganda pr is working on you as intended
it's reddit lol ofc that the majority aligns with qs
yes i can confirm that, but it was a small minority. there were substantial numbers who would vote for the other parties. in contrast, r / alberta did a similar census and over 90% of users said they would vote for the ndp, showing that this sub is an outright echo chamber.
hmm, maybe i'll have to hang out with the sub a little more then ... 🤔
as i said i do not frequent r / quebec but so much the better !! :)
thank you !
thank you !
daaaaaam
courage! the weekend is over! in a few hours, it will be monday!
really i find them really impressive. i have been wondering for some time who, in quebec, retains the greatest amount of water. beavers or hydro-quebec? i put a 2 on the beavers.
very simple but very beautiful!
"stop right there criminal scum!"
horrible. 10/10
this is the shitposting i am under for!
esti take my upvote pi descisse
dam, son!
i must have looked at it 2-3 times before i understood. good job!
what the heck is this about? reference link? anyone? bueller?
thank you in advance
lol 🤣
bread_and_pain tabarage
i put a 5 cent
beavers have invaded the entire aquatic network in quebec. # interferencecastor
it's crazy how they can do that.
there is a place where i used to go to hunt partridge. there is a small river (or a large stream) about 200m from the dirt road. one day i went and everything was flooded in the area, about 8-9 '' of water. hunters have had their camp destroyed by water. a beaver dam that had done that.
you broke the law!!
it's a pun. the river wishes to flow downstream but the beaver made a dam so it can't.
well, to try to be productive, i add a link here from the news which explains point by point why the vaccine is not rushed, that the rna vaccines were tested on humans 15 years ago and other answers.
thank you again to everyone who has been vaccinated or who has their appointment. for the others, i can understand that you have some concerns, it is true that there is nothing 100% certain in all of this. for me at the end of the day the effects are minimal / similar to other vaccines, current numbers prove they are effective and we deconfine if we hit 75 +%. i don't blindly trust pharmaceuticals, but i trust researchers and scientists who dedicate their lives to this kind of research much more.
thank you all and have a good day (ideally in the shade i think 😅)
in the same genre:
- open reddit.
- find a post that mentions quebec on the front page.
- sort by:controversial
- find a negavoted comment of quebec bashing.
- "the english are all full of shit full of prejudices."
flag posts that speak well of the vaccine such as "this is misinformation". each time esti ...
like my roommate is antivax-soft, she's going to get vaccinated '' when we have enough proof that it's safe '', '' i just want the freedom to choose '' and '' when the gov tells me to do something i automatically don't trust ''
and what i have learned is that they ... they have some interesting, almost convincing sources. she showed me a book by a journalist / actress who traveled the world to document vaccines etc. there are plenty of statistics.
the problem? the bibliography is made of 99% of other antivaxx. they are quoted among themselves to give themselves legitimacy.
but does ... someone who doesn't do science at university have the reflex to look at and judge the sources cited? no
the most morons are those who say that there are like 4000 dead in the usa because of the vaccine and about as many disabilities. considering the number of people who have been vaccinated, this is very low compared to the 500k who died from the corona virus and many more who are still suffering from it.
you have to be bashful to not understand the statistical difference and tell yourself that the vaccine is more dangerous than the covid, and i'm not afraid to say it.
po, just to let you know, "because" doesn't take a hyphen
i think we should start re-branding anti-vaxx. rather than calling them anti-vaxx, we should call them pro-death.
those who are against the vaccine are mostly against any changes whatsoever in society or simply in their personal lifestyle.
nothing to worry about these morons with an "open" mind.
controlled opposition band! the mods are ganged with the government to willfully destroy the economy and make big pharma richer.
a real redditian cultural war !!!
(sarcasme… or is it? jelecépo!)
hi everyone,
my sister-in-law is pregnant and does not want to be vaccinated for this reason. i am not able to find any articles that can shed some light on it.
does anyone have one that i can share with them? thank you!
hahahaha, i don’t get it
for the best experience, go to the “contreversial comments”
*sorts by controversial*
edit: [ho boy] (
your choice of whether you're for or against the vaccine should just be taboo-ish like your vote in elections.
personally, i don't care if you're for or against the vaccine, but don't try to convince everyone who doesn't have the same opinion as you.
[deleted]
having an opinion is made risky ... no choice to follow out of contempt for public humilation. i hope the witches will go into hiding ...
so you get downvoted pcq do you not respect the choices of others by making fun of different ideas?
i got downvoted by an army of vaccinidiot, but i don't have the steaks. my life isn't all about likes or downvotes
peace
tchi-wi,
it's summer, fa bô, the restaurants, terraces, and shops are open, we can go see our friends, jump in the pool, go to the beach, have a bbq, the canadians do the series ...
do you still need to piss off your dick with pro-vax / anti-vax, pro-masks / anti-masks, pro-conspi / anti-conspi wars like it's still in march? we are deconfined in real life, can you deconfin the sub or are we going to talk about this until mid-october?
you should stop belittling yourself, it is not because the english culture of the americas holds so much judgment that we have to do similar.
se lever a 8h00 ??
we can see that there are some who have no children here ... it's been a long time since i was able to get up as late as 8:00 ...
the real clown is the one who thinks he has the moral high ground. the pro-vaxs are as pitiful as the anti-vaxs point bar. don't you like vaccines? fine, go your way. do you like vaccines? cool, go your way. it's the interwebs here, we don't give a damn about your opinion. r quebec is r circle jerk. downvote my post, i criss quite a bit.
you misunderstand, i told you that you were a big deal to make fun of people without being able to prove why they are wrong.
i don't have a worse one too.
> get up at 8 a.m.
> laugh at the world who say the vaccine is experimental
> not being able to deny the affirmation of your interlocutor and have him face it
> count on a horde of enraged people to prove themselves right by completely distorting the words of the person who hurt his feelings
yeah, but while it's not a blog nowhere that after saying that the vaccine is poison straight, the next article is that the dpj is a child abduction network and the legault government is totalitarian, it is therefore not a reliable source of information.
thanks for a respectful comment. i am for vaccines, i am also vaccinated but i find it so counterproductive to spend your time laughing, insulting those who do not have the same opinion, vision, ...
the problem is, for a lot of these people who are anti-tax, there is no logic behind their opinion, and no matter how much you present them with all the evidence in the world, they will ignore it and reject it.
i still know people who think that the mmr vaccine causes autism, even if it has been quite proven that the "doctor" who started the ball on this stupidity, started it all to get rich, and that he never found the link, so he spoofed his data. the antivax still believe it: “the journalists were bought by big pharma, it is on! "
it is a lost cause. the modern education system has escaped these people, and we have work to do to change this system and prioritize science education.
> we deconfine if we reach 75 +%
that, that binds me. for the government to say "we keep you confined until an arbitrary number of you get vaccinated", i find it an intolerable form of coercion into what should be such a free personal choice. influence according to all medical ethical standards.
as much as r / quebec does in the anti-canadian quite often thank you, as much as i have never had to go out by controversial to see francophobia in action.
also, the comment (s) are almost always hyper upvoted, in fact, unfortunately.
a single person in wisconsin wrote on reddit that quebecers are not smart so we are literally the most persecuted people in history.
[removed]
too many steps.
you're not serious??
the best joke is still in the comments!
lol, huh?
> '' when the gov tells me to do something i automatically don't trust ''
me, when the government tells me not to drive at the top of 120 km / h on the highway, i take off my seat belt and i squeal my civic at 140.
probably the anti-vax thinks that all of our stats are made by government / pharma funded pro-vaxes who want to force us to get vaccinated. we're not doing it.
** tl; dr **: listening to the opposing side to better understand = more effective than splitting up and waging a war. on the menu: point of view on the vaccine and explanations on the importance of seeing both sides of the same problem.
this is one of the reasons why it is essential to see both sides of the same coin when it comes time to argue / give an opinion.
if we get stuck in an absolute "truth" (like my side is 100% right so the opinion of the other is worthless) it does not help. in fact it ignites more problems than solutions to find a happy medium or even a solution.
the vaccine has created fears and this is normal. we are talking about a vaccine created in an emergency during a time of global panic. even i was skeptical, but i preferred to wait where it was going to lead before deciding.
but as other editors, doctors and specialists have mentioned; the vaccine was done in parallel with other tests, unlike the standard way where tests are done in sequences with more representative data.
> does the fact that less representative data create other concerns?
certainly yes.
> are these data necessarily false?
not necessarily. the margin of error is just wider, due to the fact that the data is collected "in the field" instead of being collected in a highly controlled place (laboratory).
> and the more time goes on, the closer the margin of error will be to the result that we would have obtained in the laboratory. the difference being the accessibility to a solution earlier, but with small errors here and there vs a "perfect" solution, but having been late and causing more damage. (a good example of looking at 2 sides of the same problem).
yes, the side effects are real, but they are minimal compared to the virus itself (not to mention the variant). so if i weigh the positives vs the negatives of the vaccine, the vaccine wins my vote quite a bit.
in short, all that to say:
> take the time to listen to the opposing side to better understand. sometimes we think we have the solution, but we may be surprised that we may not have thought of 2-3 important points; which helps to find a solution rather than creating a ford-war between clans.
edit: addition of a forgotten point on the work in parallel vs the work in vaccine sequences.
that's the kind of thing you should learn in high school. how to check a source and go back. check the name of the author, the authors of the sources and their uses. a neurosurgeon who will say that vaccines are not safe because they affect the liver, he is not in his pentoute element and must learn to recognize it.
on the other hand, the people who take the vaccine (the vast majority, not counting the scientists) will not validate the sources in depth when they are legitimate.
the difference is that these people trust the state.
objectively, it's hard to blame someone for not trusting the state given our history of corruption. add to that stories like mk ultra (more specifically what happened in montreal) which are literally true "conspiracies", and it's honestly surprising that there are so few conspirators.
i am in the field of research, and what is more in the world of rnas. there are more than one person from this background who are in the same "soft-antivax" group and who are not entirely wrong in their reasoning: long-term studies have not been done, preclinical studies have only been done in male and non-female mice, we do not know exactly the impact of this rna vaccine versus other vaccines (different sequences, ...). these are valid questions in themselves, but given the amount of information we have, i do not think they are sufficient to refuse the vaccine.
the world are unable to put numbers on their feeling.
people are even less able to put the numbers they have in context to have a scale factor.
you're the only one who didn't realize it was a typo
edit: i apologize thanks for the advice
pro-plague or acolytes of nurgle
pro dead children ....
it spanks even more.
hahahaha i love it! i am going to borrow this term from you which i find quite excellent !!
look at the sub r / coronabumpers it is precisely for the vaccination of pregnant women.
edit i wrote it wrong
many here think that if it is not 100% of people who are vaccinated we will all die. while 75% is more than enough.
i am not antivax btw, i had my 1st dose in april.
i expected to wait too and yet i didn't even have time to sit down to wait for the nurse to call me. i only waited the 15 ish minutes after in case i had an allergic reaction.
"it's just an opinion!"
it remains a marde opinion.
hey chalice, if your "opinion" is that the reptilians are trying to rule the planet and that we all live on a giant tortoise you would be laughed at too. stop having "opinions" of the mentally retarded if you don't want to be laughed at.
many don't know it, but the road is still there, it has become a tunnel.
similar point: the commercial boulevard that we have built all over quebec are "stroads". streets / roads which are bad streets and bad roads.
they should be converted to combinations of 70-90 km / h roads with few intersections and low-speed parallel streets with entrances for shops. pedestrians and cyclists could move safely without problem, and vehicles could move efficiently.
true facts, i lived in france in a center where the car was allowed. several large development projects with a tram and a city center that pedestrians to revitalize the city center exponentially in ten years. people go shopping, more restaurants and businesses in short, than profit for the city and the citizens.
it is for a common interest that we must stop always thinking about comfort and the car, especially since we have a good metro network in mtl, the bulk of the infrastructure is done!
north america in general lags much behind the quality of life compared to the old continent and it is also for this reason.
i did not look for an equivalent photo, but in quebec the "new" boulevard champlain gave back the north shore of the river largely to the citizens.
they didn't take her away, they buried her ...
imagine the increase in the value of these condos.
wow. the contrast is truly astounding. i wish i could step into the bottom photo to sit on the grass and take in the view. very very nice.
see [the pine interchange in montreal] ( tearing it down has done so much [good] (
if we could bury décarie and get rid of the 40 ... my god that would do good.
will recover decarie for god's sake ... there's no reason it shouldn't be a big park or something more interesting than a dirty, recessed and noisy highway
here we have a car centric design for cities when we should have a human centric one.
recently found out a youtube channel about urban planning and it has been a revelation. highly recommend it. 
it would be so good, instead of highway 132 between brossard and longueuil. with the 30, let's say that the 132 is quite redundant and blocks access to the river.
see also the san francisco embarcadero before and after.
but how will our politicians give their construction buddies government contracts /s
thats the spirit!!
except that in europe, public transport is much more advanced than here ...
finish the 640 to bypass montreal and laval.
make a link east of quebec to avoid the city.
seems to me it's simple.
yes, but, and the liberty in all this? / s
looking at you, autoroute bonaventure
saint-calvaire his father! it’s true that it’s nice not to have a brush around the water!
i have to go to laval on desserte for the job these days and the number of times i have to cut two lines of traffic quickly to not miss my exit ... look, i know i'm not used to it yet but still .
worse afterwards when you arrive on desserte / curé labelle it's like a street next to the highway where you have to turn right suddenly with people following you at 70-80-90 km / h
it's honestly stressful.
three rivers
let's go calvass quebecers we are the most beautiful people of this holy sacrafice of planet earth, are capable of even better than that if we want !! come and debate with me if you are not convinced, my little band of pagans!
what is the problem with urban highways?
go with your facts and your logic!
it's still a good thing what they did.
similar transformation underway in seattle: [2021] ( 2e0! 5s20170901t000000! 6s 2f% 2fstreetviewpixels-pa.googleapis.com% 2fv1% 2fthumbnail% 3fpanoid% 3dlrkegoonfzwejrrycvoxbw% 26cb_client% 3dmaps_sv.tactile% 3d203% 3d203% 26awitch% 26% 263% 263% 3dawitch_sv.tactile25% 3d203% 26% 26% 26 % 26thumbfov% 3d100! 7i16384! 8i8192) vs [2017] ( ! 1sgtzbp6sbl3jxulbyp6wgya! 2e0! 5s20170901t000000! 7i13312! 8i6656). the degeulasse overhead highway (alaskan way viaduct; similar to the 40 in montreal) was destroyed and replaced by a tunnel.
a tunnel is not always an error, it is just always an error between lévis and quebec.
you destroy the cross in anti-car circles
but i can't listen to radio canada in a tunnel !! d:
oupelaille, it will disappoint many of the bad, not green tunnels!
tayeul you're going to fart their balloon
ever since i watched these videos i have been in a lifelong depression :(.
i stay on a street full of condos and we don't even have sidewalks. we start from afar.
north america ... almost all of it ... stroad, stroad ... stroads everywhere. even in villages of 2-3000 people everything is moved on a depressing bypass road. i see my childhood village stretching out into the outskirts, public and private services moving there ... the village center is empty of activity. in 2021 ... and the population has not changed for 30 years.
it sets my ass on fire. everyone seems blind to the concept. and there is still a large proportion of people who find that everything new is beautiful. the toyota dealership moving from its old building to the outskirts into a new white plastic building, too much parking and lights to be seen from the moon. no sidewalk. this is modern, this is beautiful.
although depressing it was very interesting, thanks for the link! i think i'll be listening to this channel for a good part of the weekend! :)
i had this this video and i was wondering how to translate stroad into french. i got to the rutting proposition. i think it sounds as gross as stroad.
although depressing it was very interesting, thanks for the link! i think i'll be listening to this channel for a good part of the weekend! :)
in a similar vein, i quite liked [this article] ( which puts finger on another very common problem here.
>as long as there is a private market in real estate, comparatively desirable, unique, and scarce places will be bid up by those who can afford them.
our cities are so poorly designed that we have the illusion that "good neighborhoods" are difficult to build because of the cost. however, they are only expensive because they are rare.
we often talk about montreal being made overpriced, but the "montreal" that people consider desirable has grown very little in the past 50 years. quebec will inevitably go through this also in several years.
wow thanks for sharing the video! i really enjoyed learning more about it and intend to share it with those around me.
the catch is, here we only * know * about city planning that is driver-centric. as soon as one proposes a use of public space which is not favorable to the car, the population, say the taxpayers, grumbles and the politicians wish to avoid their discontent.
[bordeaux?](
it's crazy, i come from the north shore of montreal and on the mille-iles river in rosemère / boisbriand / saint-eustache you have practically no access to the river, just houses and rare parks.
in comparison, the cycle path sector that goes from verdun to practically dorval is really good. it would take more movements like that, but when everything is already inhabited, it's more difficult to correct.
yes, it actually reminds of boulevard champlain in quebec.
well that's it, you had to destroy all this dream with reality!
/s
this might interest you!
[
the "front" reminds me of the interchange in st-roch in quebec which leads to the upper town near the parliament. it is like the most unpleasant sector of the city, the government has just demolished a large part of the district to lead to a freeway which immediately 'dissolves' into small streets near the old one.
ok wtf i never knew it had already been that. looking at what this intersection looks like today, it really makes you wonder who the psychopath who thought a big concrete exchanger creak was necessary was. so not elegant as a solution.
it's better, but it's still a stroad that goes through a beautiful park.
you would just have to finish the 640 to cross the outaouais river and you just cleared 50% of the traffic that is not related to mtl.
[deleted]
this year what we buy as soon as it is available to resell at a higher price are the houses.
they were right to buy some, there were more left in the stores afterwards.
i remember ... calvary that i wondered; no but why ?!?!? really no logic 🤷‍♀️🧻💩 a nice gang of mallets ...
[deleted]
there are three bozos in south korea who are armed robbery and are distributed with 50 packages for a total of $ 270. they will spend 3 years in prison, profitable screeching.
me being single, i am on the same package of 30 rolls even before all this goes to burst!
we had a full wall of toilet paper, jsp why or how my parents did it, but we didn't run out of toilet paper. i have to admit that it was still innocent of them
in a province full of pulp and paper industry
actually, there was a very logical reason, but not for us, for the australians.
given their dependence on china / asia for the majority of their retail products, and especially all pulp and paper products (toilet paper included), when the pandemic began, china ceased all production and export of products " non-essential ".
so in australia a wave of it spread on social media that a shortage of certain products would be inevitable, including toilet paper. mr. madam everyone, we took this news without considering the context and voila, toilet paper in short supply throughout the western world.
in truth, the shortage here was due to the lack of transportation of goods and the wave of sheep that absolutely must have a huge supply. waterfalls, kruger, etc. had ample stock, and delivered it to retailers, but at the retail level, they have to choose what gets in the truck from the distribution center. either a 53 'full of toilet paper (product with low profit margin / high storage area), or the normal order which includes all other non-refrigerated items such as chef boyardee cans, ostie scraps, the map-o-spread, etc.
thanks for coming to my spoken ted.
i was still working in a grocery store at the time and we were all like ... what the fuck?
toé you have memory. you torches.
criss that i remember it. i was stuck wiping myself with kleenex.
[source.](
i had already made my basic provisions for 4 months of puffs in january 2020 (i had too many problems in my time) and i had forgotten one thing
toilet paper criss
i had laughed so hard when i first saw this on the news. what about the people who sold the rolls individually on kijiji? it was really special.
then, after careful consideration, i thought to myself that it was surely wrong to laugh at people who are less intelligent. after all, who would laugh at an intellectual disability? rather, it is necessary to reassure them, to explain to them that the supply chains have not been stopped. in short, you have to do as with children who are afraid of the dark.
on the other hand, i must admit that i didn't laugh at all when i ran out of toilet paper and i had to do several shops to find it. like what, it's very funny to laugh at the lack of intelligence of some people until their lack of intelligence harms you personally.
in any case, with the stocks they have accumulated, i hope they did not have to buy toilet paper in 2020 ...
this situation really got over me, i did not understand why wasted so much toilet paper. i laughed to see them do it, the full load baskets just toilet paper. loll
* the costco effect * or
> i buy therefore i am
the real question, but who still wipes himself with just toilet paper?
bidet >>> toilet paper
there was a topic on / r / askreddit that asked the world who had bought large quantities how long it took them to go through all of this. top post: a guy who had a stomach problem for 2 weeks just before the lockdown and who had shit his life. had bought extra because of it and finished it 3 months later as his business had recovered. very few people who did to resell, many people who were given away by both sides of the family.
yes! and it had * piss * off * a bunch of people!
yeah, but there was a logical reason: they are really moron! lol
all because some parts of australia ran out because they import their paper products from china and the borders were closed.
this is what happens when you watch cnn to see what is happening elsewhere and you decide to do the same thing here without understanding what is going on there
isn't it monsieur legault?
worse bread, eggs and milk 😂
i totally agree with you.
to say that i wasted my free award on another post 🤦🏻‍♂️
moe who went from nobody at home during the day to me + 3 children who seemed to shit worse were wiping at school until then i must admit that i quickly realized that my "no paper stress de toilette "quickly became a realization that 4 people at home 24/7 it torches on a time.
logical reason .. torch the asshole ??
assholes need tp !
1% of the world buy too much paper for no reason and the media have embarked, which has created a mass movement for others to buy too much paper for fear of going away. everything is beautiful up to this size the poop in the ass without being able to wipe you ...
now .. it's the same problem with video cards.
i remember that at that exact time i had more toilet paper, so i went to get some, when i asked if they had any stock left, the salesmen looked at me with an air "ah .. him too. . "fuck haha.
i bought one pack of toilet paper at costco a year ago when i saw people with 4 or 5 or more packs in their cart.
i still have half of last year's package.
[propos ...] ( fymy1-2.fna & oh = 18ae4e1574b26fd23b7bb244ed0114d6 & oe = 607a377c)
quebec 10 years ago: "hahahahaha they shoot water in the ass!"
quebec today: "if you don't have a bidet, you're a filthy guy who spreads his own mess like an animal"
[deleted]
i think a much bigger grocery store with a lot of non-perishable food was still a legit thing to do. we didn't really know what was coming.
the $ 1000 of toilet paper not against .....
i bought a 20kg of flour and a huge packet of yeast from costco. best buy ever.
we have since bought a few more bags of flour and have not bought any bread since march 2020.
i think we finally just got through half the packet of yeast.
> my anus is still very clean now.
it's good to know!
how does it work for hot water if the product offers the function.
summer shouldn't be that bad, maybe even a little refreshing, but we must have all a surprise when we get shot in the cold winter water on the brown eye.
is there a way to turn on the water a little earlier?
bidet ou siège bidet is the way to go my friend lol
good shot  😂
i did the same. no more "when you go to bed with your ass itching you get up if you can !!" in addition, a bidet is not expensive and we save on the pq.
have you chosen to spoil yourself with a bidet that heats the water? it's so much nicer.
i read "ready and clean" 😆😆😆
yes. worse graphics cards for bitcoin and ps5s for scalping.
logic that we should apply to everything, i don't see where the problem is! / s
yes, but not so much. like 1-2 packages and by the time that finished them it was back in stock.
do you really think the world who did this took the time to think about it before?
i wouldn't like to be caught in traffic and see it in the distance
they just announced that there was a death, sad.
resident of mascouche here. the city looks like a war zone. never seen before.
my friend filmed the tornado when she was 2 blocks from their house. everything is ravaged in his corner.
tournade
credit to my friend hugo ([lightninbuster.ca] (
edit: hugo allows me to display the damage so i will do a 2nd post
tabarnak, never seen a case of the same during my lifetime in quebec. it's going to be a lot more frequent now, we know why.
i live in beauce and coming back from work, i saw a funnel being created. if i understood correctly, we are awaiting confirmation of a tornado. it was very close to my house, i was rocking my life
oh my god, i remember the tornadoes we had in ottawa-gatineau a few years ago. they ravaged the region! : o
one dead, wounded… phew! heavy in tabarnak.
yes sir miller, climate change is a myth the gang 🙃
man, we also had an alert in capitale-nationale. quite far from that but still.
literally the street of my grandparents. they were "lucky" just their backyard was knocked out, but they and the house are 100% correct.
completely crazy.
tip 101 - when we look at a tornado, if it does not move, it is coming towards us.
the spc clearly saw the risk that we would be entitled to something major and that was confirmed.
note that 5% for us in quebec is a lot.
[
i live 2km away. we ran out of electricity but i was not outside, i saw nothing
government of canada advises on what to do in these circumstances. 
rip sir
this is not the first tornado in mascouche and it will unfortunately not be the last with global warming. the last one was in 2007 if i'm not mistaken? on the way to the english. it's scary.
holy shit
fuck man this story is terrible
me, i just noticed that the traffic was not worse for quarter to four.
after seeing the damage that a little bit do ... i have a lot of trouble understanding those who will stay in places where there are * seasons * of whole tornadoes, like it happens every time. x years but serious spas marcel is attaching the shed this year!
ayoye fak that's where the big black clouds come from, i live near levis
beautiful serious tornado
i remember throwing up on it.
eh boy d: do you know if there are any injuries?
"oh no"
-the world of mascouche, probably
it's sick!
i want a video of the tour, i'm in mexico, marci
god doesn't always fart but when he does .....
bein see you hit, a tornado in montreal and everyone in the damned quebec receives an alert lol.
is it really worse to be hit by the tornado than to get to .. mascouche ..
serious
if i see it in traffic jmen calisse i click it in the shoulder
yeah serious
i have a van with offroad tires, i would have taken full ground to get out of there! lol
the man had taken refuge in his shed. she's not a joke.
do you have photos to share?
can you share the video?
torbillon
[deleted]
saint-augustin-de-desmaures in quebec i received the alert on my phone, my girlfriend started to panic solid lol.
until we realized it wasn't for here
never seen? there are several tornadoes per year in quebec, it's just that the percentage of "densely" inhabited territory is small so the chances of it being affected are small, but we have about 5-6 tornadoes per year and for example we had some. 14 in 1994.
we have a climate all the same conducive to this, we pick up the very hot air of the american southwest, the very cold air of the dark and the very humid air of the american southeast. when some of these extremes meet, it explodes loudly!
[deleted]
it did not touch the ground, it formed in the corner of st-isidore and it moved for a long time but never touched the ground.
my mother lives next door, she was really scared
or she goes. ;)
thank you for the link!! we would need to extend the noaa service to our side of the border for this risk growing over the years ...!
and government of quebec also: 
i just want to say, as someone who used to fluently speak french a long time ago, i really appreciate these translations.
[deleted]
3 roteux cabbage mustard and be generous aek the cabbage please
wait a minute, he's a hot dog!
[deleted]
at one point i had asked for a steamed hot dog and the cashier looked at me so crooked. "ahh you mean * steamed *?" "😶
[deleted]
can you 'change' â fries for a neugnieunngnigne
a burpy alldress
un steamé all dressed takeout
ahahahah nice. good to have some quebecois feed on reddit!
stimulated assedress
a full steamed hotdog would also have been accepted as the first image.
\*hot dog
serious question ...
where are the remaining valentines? the last one i knew was in a remote corner of the promenades de gatineau.
on it «olldresse»
[removed]
a steaming hot dog
with a little greasy
who recalls lamothe to papineauville?
this is the first one that i have ever heard
“aweille francine ma tprendre troé stimmé alldress and a grrrroossseee poutine astheure”
two hot doye stimulated choumoutardketchup.
it's important to say it all at once with the right intonation.
stimmé mustard cabbage
an oldoy voice alldress
why not try ... the hoydoys ?!
tuva give me a big steupla hambogger
eeee mo take you or eeee give moer !!!!!!
ketchup, mayo, onion. the superior hot dog.
one big bs two sauce pi one # 123
team saguenay
in rotteux, steam, garnished.
stimmé complete
what happened?
no problem.
[deleted]
a burp, a greasy and a fizzy
[deleted]
stun holdoye
he's a burger.
worse the max
a * hot dog * if you want to.
heresy!
a hot dog to prepare with the aqueous emanation accompanied by any available condiment
there's one in the food court at the eaton center in montreal, it's greasy as you wish.
sometimes i go to dinner, i walk past, i look at the brown fries and i "arch"
worse i will immediately line up.
i think there are 4 in st-hyacinthe, but i think the chain originates from there.
in mauricie there are everywhere: p
at the rigaud truck stop
looks like there's one in the left-handed 1000?
there's one in sainte-catherine on the south shore of montreal but i admit it's the only one i know in the area
there are 4-5 in laval / north shore, like saint-eustache and boisbriand
is it good, edible, any of the above? i have my doubts, already that it is more and more difficult to find good poutine in restaurants ...
why the 20 bills?
honestly, i have more trouble with the concept of microwave poutine than the concept of frozen poutine.
i'm sick of this guy.
he is the quintessential scarecrow influencer; a sad cliché and symbol of their degeneration.
everything to make a dollar.
it's really the worst poutine i have eaten and i don't say that because the face has olivier first on it, the portion is tiny, the cheese tastes nothing and there are hardly any and the fries are soft (obviously this is what happens when it is heated in the microwave). ho and only 1 of his poutines is equal to 57% of the daily value in fat, the taste is really not worth the fat in my opinion haha
not related to primeau poutine but pro tip for all people who doubt that a leftover poutine reheated in the microwave can be good: to heat a poutine in the microwave (and like all the food ever in the world). elsewhere), the trick is to put it at a lower power level. people scream that 100% and you end up with atomized / liquefied cheese and sauce that burns / crusts. put that at 60% for 2 min and end it with a lil 30 seconds at 80% worse for real you would be surprised how a warmed poutine can be legit.
nothing better than the poutines at louis luncheonette
frozen poutines never tasted good and never will be
it's hard to say what's worse between the influencer and the frozen poutin.
much putin discussion today
without joke, it's not hard to make a poutine
image 4 everywhere rendered there.
its exists for real !? i thought this was a running gag from the sub that i didn't understand ...
and then you use the trash as a dish
he may well be a chelsea fan.
i ate a frozen poutine last week
in the oven, it's still semi drinkable
hmm no proof he really threw it 🧐.
isn't that you on the box?
a few days ago i made a mistake. i thought i'd make myself a poutine made with provigo fries. i had also bought fresh cheese curds and st-hubert poutine sauce. i had forgotten, however, that the provigo fries are mediocre. worse, it was only after putting the cheese curds and the already heated sauce that i realized that the fries had already cooled.
very disappointing. and considering the price, i could have had better for less at the local snack bar. first and last time i do this.
whether it's good or not, it's still a nice screech of wasted food 🤦‍♂️
can you put olivier in the trash at the same time?
for having tried it, it's better than a mcdonald's poutine, but it beats no restaurant or canteen poutine. when you're hungry and you don't want to leave your house, especially at the grocery store, it does.
edit: oh yeah, fuck the microwave. put it in the direct oven!
honestly, i bought it as a joke more than anything else and was pleasantly surprised.
she is more than edible and she really tastes the poutine of fast food.
i love benny's chicken poutine, but purists will say that a poutine with wavy fries and imitation bbq sauce is not real poutine.
poutineville has the best poutines. otherwise there is always the ice floe.
[deleted]
tse that restaurants also use frozen potatoes
because olivier primeau really feels the deep need to show that he is successful and makes lots of cash with his business.
whoever speaks the language of influencer tse must absolutely flex his cash to show that you have influence and nothing in your head ...
i don't really like it ste dude there xd
i'm on a couple of quebec day / swing trading groups and saw that olivier primeau was a member, and the only posts he made were bragging about his success and beach day profits. i think like everyone else, i find some of his moves ridiculous (ie the $ 5 blog posts) and respect others (beach club, beach day), but my dude clearly needs to compensate for something. thing...
big crackle of pro stuff: to heat a poutine in the microwave, the trick is to put it at a lower power level. people always screech 100% or you end up with atomized / liquefied cheese and sauce that burns / crusts. put that at 60% for 2 min and end it with a lil 30 seconds at 80% worse for real you would be surprised how a warmed poutine can be legit.
it was a contest, he was drawing cash in relation to his poutine or i don't know what. that's why the $ 20 package is flashing.
i look at him in this photo and i find it so much that he looks insignificant
in short, the kim kardashian from quebec.
you're supposed to eat this when you're completely scrap i think. i screeched him in a bbq and made love to him. it was good.
not just to put this to a minimum, putting a saran wrap on the top with small holes will help a lot
sherbrooke represent
people of sherbrooke get up!
i don't know if it still exists, but the poutines at snack sur la well were the best.
charlie's bbq poutines at 3am would have their say.
well, if the sauce and the cheese are frozen!
the fries ... c made to serve fresh
i bought one at the convenience store about 4 or 5 years ago. typical microwave poutine: melted cheese and still cold frits in the middle.
see that you say that the same, in public, without any embarrassment! criss that the world has no pace ... / s
seriously, your verdict?
for making my own poutine a few times ... often times, the homemade dish tastes so much better than the one in the restaurants ... not the poutine. so not worth it ...
i like mcdonald's poutine, but i consider it folds like a simili-poutine. not a classic poutine.
no but tabarnack, if you go to the grocery store, buy potatoes, cheese pi a cane of sauce. what are you going to pay for your frozen poute, $ 8 !?
potatoes $ 2-3 special, sauce $ 2 cheese $ 5-10. you get under $ 15.
ciboire gang
i will try one day if i see any, purely out of curiosity.
i don't believe you.
benny is au coq in montreal. the sauce is less hot than benny's but the poutine is the best ever. so benny / au coq serve the best poutines, we agree!
la banquise is so overrated!
oh wow the stroke of nostalgia. i wonder if my parents kept them. i have been a subscriber for several years. i even remember that one year the gift was a headlamp and i used it to read late at night!
i let go of les débrouillards after the episode where gregory charles explained that one day the earth would be engulfed by the sun. even though it reinforced the fact that it would only be millions of years away, i freaked the fuck out because i was too young to understand the concept of time. i bawled sth for weeks.
faq yeah, tl; dr: gregory charles confronted me with my own mortality at too young an age.
it makes me suddenly want to put celery branches in a glass of water with red dye in it
seriously, this is the kind of media that made the man i am now, that piqued my curiosity and opened up to the world. there were completely crazy experiences, in the old jmpds, coding tutorials ... thank you les débrouillards!
ha! my daughter came to see me all stressed out yesterday because her subscription is about to expire and she doesn't know what to do.
yes in 1984.
i still have my satchels with extra délire magazines!
>2010
i feel really old
i have never been a subscriber but i think i read everything published between 1999 and 2003 because my dentist had them in his waiting room and i had appointments almost every month because of my pins 😂 it made the visit to the dentist less pocket at least!
eille i had them those!
and the explorers before too
yes i remember that i had participated in a drawing contest and that i had won a comic strip 😂 you know the fanarts of the characters there, i made so many drawings of furry frogs at that time
team safarir
i recently learned on facebook that we quebec millennials who grew up in the 90s are united by the fact that the person whose death has impacted us the most in our life is that of marie-soleil tougas.
really cool! personally i have the complete collection from 2001 to 2019.
my elementary school threw us one once in a while!
man i was kind in 3rd or 4th grade when my dad sat me at the dinner table to tell me for marie-soleil
yes, i even appeared in an issue that talked about the new wave of the internet!
about ten years later, i picked up someone who worked at the camp in arundel. short guided tour, passed a man who was told to me afterwards that he was the prof. scientifix.
i was a subscriber, yes! unfortunately, i gave most of the magazines to my younger cousins, but i still have a few left and i have goldstyn's book with the comics archived!
edit: the recommended age was for 9-13 year olds, but i remained a subscriber until 15-16 years old so much i liked it hahahaha! at the same time, i received the curium!
rip marie-soleil tougas :(
anyone here remembers the kinds of conventions of je me petit de faire at the maurice richard arena in the 80s / 90s?
i will always remember learning the concept of the "mp3 player" for the first time in les débrouillards! a game-changer
such !! genre early late 90 / early 20. my favorite magazine, i dreamed of participating in the show !!
ayoye yes haha i was a subscriber for like 5 years ... nostalgia
i remember it, my teachers gave it to us at elementary school. it was still very interesting magazines for a young age. thank you for making me feel a bit of nostalgia!
i have the harry potter one too, it was in my first hahaha
yes, i have plenty of them in my basement 😁! i found it so interesting as magazines!
the favorite magazine of my childhood!
me it was the safarir!
i remember these two blankets i have them again omg
i even went to the resourceful camp when i was young hahahaha
oh and i had point and click adventure game genres on dvd pc which were really good from what i remember haha man i really liked hustlers
my parents gave me the subscription for my 9th birthday. i still remember the cover: '' greg digger for gold '' it was an overview of gold and its use as a material and a hint of vocabulary and history.
thank you for the beautiful memory!
the two numbers above your stack that we see in your photo are among those i had by subscribing from spring 2010 to winter 2012. i was tired of the likes to read (i was 12 years old and i was starting to find it too '' baby '' lol) and i had asked my parents to switch from j'aime lire to les débrouillards. my subscription was stopped in the winter of 2012, because my high school subscribed to les débrouillards and there was always the most recent copy that i read until i graduated in 2015! yes, at 17, i was still reading les débrouillards, out of nostalgia, in addition to curium which had just started at the time!
besides, on this subject, i am making an aside, but when i was in cegep, i could not get over the fact that they were subscribers to débrouillards, but not to curium, which however, was intended for a audience older than that targeted by débrouillards! guess what: i read more in cegep, until they decided to stop their subscription in 2018.
very good memories. even though i was never really interested in science, i often learned something useful in it! the comics were really cool, the section where a young person described his problem and where a few young people and tel-jeunes gave their advice was useful to me for one or two problems i had.
i still have the number where we make the profile of a young pascal yiacouvakis.
i was a subscriber in the late 90s, early 2000s. i still have my entire collection too! what a great little review it was (that it actually still is).
i watched their shows on canal famille diligently too!
yes and one year, as a holiday gift, i received as a gift going for a week at the débrouillards summer camp!
we had made a rocket and, in flight, the top fell to let out a parachute so that it fell gently.
subscribed for 3 years for my children, they preferred cool and now they are still resourceful but with great looks :)
ah what memories! i had about thirty of them a very long time ago, kept in a box of rice cut in half to pretend it was a binder!
the neighborhood library had each new edition. i was going there just to read it. nostalgia overload
oh my god nostalgia! i still have my collection elsewhere.
oh ouiiii the hustlers !! i loved it so much, thanks for reminding me that it existed!
i also remember that my school had a debrouillards activity club. it was once a week.
it was super popular.
i had even gone to camp! for 2 weeks, we had done a lot of things ranging from horticulture to astronomy! i hope that it still exists of camp
yes i even went through it in a halloween trick and trick 💪😤😤
me🤣🤣🤣
awwww ♥
no, but if i remember correctly, i did a summer camp at les débrouillards!
yes all my childhood.
sure! i even keep my collection.
but do the resourceful still exist?
it is still available: 
i remember always reading these when i was bored in elementary school
me. i subscribed in 2013 but can remember when i quit. i think my brother started reading them instead. i still have it all over the place. i even have a few comics.
wow nostalgia!
[deleted]
she studies sleep day and night.
a sleeper!
i don't need sleep, i need answers!
maybe she is experimenting on herself?
it is easy to give advice on sleep when you sleep well yourself!
if she has trouble sleeping, then she can talk about it and better understand the associated behaviors!
it's like in bodybuilding, you should not seek advice from the one who muscles very easily but on the contrary the one who has accumulated knowledge because he was struggling!
hey boy! it looks like the emperor palpatine woman version ...
i lived 5 minutes from her home, we met often. i thought she looked tired all the time even before she learned what she did for a living.
"i guide others to a treasure that i myself cannot own"
wtf lol c you a real interview
man this is old
apparently she is smatte!
posted by [u/starskins]( [4 years ago](
ayoye ...
well that's normal. if you study sleep, you have to be awake to watch others sleep at night, or you have to be awake during the day to talk about it on tv ...
laval 🤙
[
no! it's not true
i remember seeing this live interview on tv, my parents and i were looking at each other with a "should you be laughing or belly ...?"
it's a shame i can't find a clip on youtube
tell yourself that she probably had makeup on a few minutes before the interview.
we call it self-experimentation.
the worst thing is that it is true
his expertise is indisputable
calvary, she worse rocky iii it's the same thing
criss that she will make me laugh every time this photo there.
you judge a sexually overactive woman a lot, i think.
she literally looks like a sloth
oof. has she ever slept? 
oh there. has she never slept?
we can you have the link of the video please
sid of the ice air if those eyes had melted and found themselves somewhere relating to normal.
it looks more like "pockets" due to alcoholism than sleep i think ...
madam has a doctorate so she looks big
same same same.
the same! classic! really so funny haha
it's funny that you say that because i have colleagues who studied in a sleep lab at university, and it was a bit like that actually. some studies called for them to sleep all night with them (these were sleep deprivation studies).
study the crack pipe ...
soft and light. these rather delicate dry wines are distinguished by their pale color, their simple aromas and the sensation of freshness that arises from their acidity.
we study what we do not understand ...
wow so beautiful what your writing the ......
empress falfatigue.
she might just be doped all the time
yep.
you hurt me...
she no longer looks like she was woken up a few minutes before the interview. for once she was sleeping!
[deleted]
you forgot the roundness in the mouth
i love: d
wtf
... to my animal heart
you were shining like the sun.
shine so crazy diamond!
you take away the words from the bush 😂
i hate it!
flat hedge ...
threat level larch
my girlfriend got sick from drinking milk yesterday. ben has morning shrub even milk there.
what fir?
no worse op i breathed a little through my nose
arborvitae! the colonizers called it that because they would die of scurvy when the natives introduced them to this tree, which keeps them alive, therefore "arborvitae"
edit:
the eastern white cedar was first identified back in the 16th century when french explorer jacques cartier learned from the native americans that scurvy, a disease caused by vitamin c deficiency, could be cured by boiling the winter leaves and bark of a native evergreen tree they called “arborvitae”. the arborvitae then became more widely known by the french as “l’arbre de vie,” or “tree of life.”
hedge boy ...
seal wadding
it smells good in cursed cedar.
make yourself a compressed stick pi burn it quietly, you will save a lot of febreeze. plus, instead of poisoning yourself with chemicals, you'll just poison yourself with natural smoke particles.
it is bushy
“it's not cedar, it's tuilla”
no but seriously googling it i'm pretty sure it's true
that's daring the same as a language trick
i made a ti cross post on r / dundermifflin, i will take it off if ever better not
i speak english but i see what you did there
wow op, i immediately argued that it was you even before looking at your username!
it's funny.
thuja put the package
i expected to see homer simpson slowly release xd
i'm a little worried.
wouldn't that be more of a thuja?
michael scott's favorite liner from the office
well done my friend! 👍🏻
but can you pull a franglais * 125 * ??
not sure rrrrr
i scie what you did there.
i see myself in there and i don't hate it.
caliss!
r/angryupvote
well let's see ti-fred!
it was just a faux-tremble don't worry
i am an anglo, but i french very well.
[deleted]
[* thuja occidentalis *] ( also thuja, cedar or even broom, it is depending.
yep, it's western thuja, but hey, we won't ash the puns for that!
thuya
hahahaha! busted!
oufffffff
hahahaha (i literally don't know if it's inside or not)
i read in french only, i almost never write, sorry for the spelling mistakes, it's my second language, but please tell me what's the problem, is that it should be masculine? guards? or which verb should i use? thank you !
eeh, dear not, i would not put that in the according to me. looks like it's okay in the garden.
your puns make me really miserable.
it should be "guard". the subject of the verb is "who", which here represents "the tree" in the first part of the sentence, is therefore in the third person singular. "he keeps", "the tree keeps", etc. at the same time, tree is masculine, so it should be "that" tree.
but don't worry, your french is pretty good for someone who doesn't write it often. let's say that i see university work written by french speakers with at least as many mistakes ...
come on as a little decoration in the library vase, yinque a little branch ... if not even in essential oil?
we may have exaggerated a little ... i'm going back to the birch.
i write just to continue the oak
it's so ridiculous, i tremble
i laughed a little while reading that at the birch tree
usually i find that "relatable" marketing is pretty cringe, but for real valentine they are really good.
ok, so usually this kind of comm. i find cringe, as much valentine makes me fucking laugh
you can have steamers delivered to you
marketing would benefit from knowing about firebug
steamed> grilled
change my mind
how much are the hot dogs?
meh ...
lego the waffle pi aroudô ac leu esti de niasauge of condiment its going to make coliss
ey mais sibolac que jen ai plin lcul côlass
valentine and hydro-québec have good coverage on social media
i will never spit on a good pun!
i also appreciate the announcements of boustan
steamed sausage with toast.
on the other hand, when they miss their shot with a steamer, you have a sad wet mud that is barely edible
the hydroqc and passive-aggressive hydroqc pages are managed by the same team. change my mind.
maxi are not worse too, there have been a couple of good ones!
oh yes they've been super strong in the last year. and it's in the best fastfoods in the montreal area as well.
toé i love you
maxi and valentine are with the same marketing agency (lg2) if i am not mistaken. they found a winning recipe to stand out from the crowd on social networks!
boustan special at the end of the evening, it's quite a log
[deleted]
their shitty strategy works my boomer mother told me this morning "cta cause young people who don't care that we have lots of covid". effectively "the young" it made the scapegoat easy for all the problems.
a meme that generalizes about people that generalizes.
poggers
put all the young people ... in the same salad basket! they're having fun in the cell at the police station.
based and redpillulated
may the anti-masks condemn violence! # 2012
i would really like it to be jocelyne letendre from radio hell who gives us her press briefings!
i'm still looking in the online videos of the thugs and the ones that set the old fires on fire and i just see the young - you can do the exercise too, the videos are on twitter and facebook. we can therefore say ** young people ** were filmed doing vandalism. no generality, but an observation
moé when i have recalcitrant problems, i use a little clr and it cleans everything! i don't understand why montreal has so many problems ...
it's pretty good, and even more so for a very first! keep going, we can't wait to see how good the next one will be!
it reminds me of a stele of king naram-sim (2000 years before the ti jesus) who bemoaned young people. like what the more it changes, the more it is the same!
the worst part is that some "boomers" think that all young people are the same. the other time i was with my friend who was walking. we had empty cans and we went to put them in a recycling bin from someone randomly because it’s better than polluting. pi la ya qqn who comes out pi y mouths us after pi y accuses us of having thrown away these advertisacs. yo i don't care about your xd advertising bags
and, at the same time, the thugs and the protesters say it's "the young" who are bored, so there aren't a lot of very, very bright people in this situation.
i do not understand why the world is saying that window breakers are running government polls.
the world is watching the news and will be like: "there are violent demonstrations so that means the government is doing a good job, so i'm going to vote for them" ???
please explain, i actually don't understand.
[deleted]
ptdr
i like this !
we will not be indulgent, will not go go and collect two hundred dollars.
worse, the word boomer, do you have the impression that it is used well? or rather that we use it to put a bunch of people in the same basket?
> the word really has a wide back.
like the belly of boomers
boomer now also includes millennials
if you are old enough to say “young people” you are no longer. should be fine as a compromise, right?
\ * watch the 40-year-old world come together \ * you'll be it
young people are affected by the coronavirus! yes, 40 year olds!
it's good to know that my grandmother is a young ...
funny because, as a "youngster" (23 years old), i have the impression that "boomer" is also used for anyone with gray hair.
always has been.
but it's crazy how the media have been picking up "young people" for a good 2 weeks.
worse at the start of the pandemic everyone complained about the old people who were going to get two benanes worse who were going to bingo.
pot, meet kettle.
it looks like that my boyfriend
everything is in everything.
memphremapog
pogenous apple
we appreciate the francization of the term
i just want a girl who is proud of me and who calls me her little pogger
pogs are back in fashion ?! : d
unexpected authright u/hesser09
based and redpilled
> jocelyne letendre of radio hell
well my faith i am "young". so tell me dear who is this individual?
yes i even agree. what i agree less is to say that all the young people go to these demonstrations and all the young people break windows etc. shade
tse, the less young who have children will not keep the little ones to protest against a stupid measure. they have lives and must be home to make supper. older people do not want to risk their careers and lose their house / land / car / cottage while young people have nothing, will have nothing and will not even have memories of studies or study friendships gone like it's there.
canac: we repress the demonstrators * for real! *
the thugs accentuate the feeling of insecurity of the population vis-à-vis young people. the caq, a right-wing party (a good center-right if you will) is pretty much their niche of world security: a police force that is stronger and more able to reprimand. people have more confidence in the caq to solve the problem than in other parties, rightly or wrongly.
people generally seem to support the worst crackdown if you have anything broken during a protest.
it gives the government a pass to spank dissent.
when there are protests against the curfew, it is associated with the thick ones that we saw in the parks and in the demonstration. it shows the public that the government is right to want to try to control this gang there (even if it does not seem to work ...). in the end, legitimate protests are no longer heard.
i'm not sure i see where you are going with this
boomer: someone who has no more student debt.
my definition of boomers is to have 3 or more of the following points:
- love florida;
- have bought a house under $ 100k;
- to have studied in no debt;
- be climatosceptics;
- have 2 tanks;
- comment on the vat news page;
- call facebook its site or the site;
- is still on twitter
- vote caq or plq (it's the same thing anyway);
i am probably forgetting some.
there are those who forget that there are still people who were born before 1950.
this is a big chemtrail esti
are you at the metro lol?
[deleted]
we are thinking of moving to this area. you give me even more taste this morning!
/ r / hvac
caline yen who are well in the morning!
oh a rooftop friend too.
i would have liked so much that the second turns 45 to the right at the end ...
is it me or does it look like a rocket has just taken off while observing the trajectory of the airplane contrails?
i was doing a sleepover at 6:55 am while you were doing this. fucking handsome
wow it's really beautiful
i am there, now, gorgeous.
from otterburn park, we have this view every morning! how lucky to live here
i love our beautiful part of the province!
lol, that's my sight every morning, i'm in the condo tower behind! this is one of the big reasons for our purchase, a great view of the mountain.
skyrim's new mod looks insane
is it the ti-gris coming out of the mountain?
refrigerator?
put on ti-gloves you will have chapped knuckles.
refrigerator?
hey, i saw your booty in the morning!
rocket launch?
holy shit that looks cool
evangelion angels on budget
hey, this is our place!
mont st-hilaire and its thousand and one secret base stories, ufos and so on.
it won't help: p
yen has one that comes from buyback back from the mount lol
shinji embarks on the eva, the angels attack quebec!
direct du lac hertel! c'est les alunakis!
yes, since september 2001, the americans have secretly built a silo for chemtrail planes in the hollow of lake hertel. the whole to subtly modify the concentration of neurotransmitters of the neuronal synapses of the occipital lobe, causing the gray matter to generate electrical impulses influencing the canadians to the anti-islamic cause. since i got vaccinated against covid, the included microchip neutralizes the effects of chemtrails. i can prove to you what i'm saying just by saying it: otherwise the chemtrails would prevent me from being able to explain all this to you obviously.
have you noticed how empty the sky is compared to before? also, silent. almost no more plane noise at high altitude ... honestly, i don't hate that.
yep
i was going to say "what are you doing on the roof of the savoy deli?" except that as far as i know it even exists.
the action of gamestop that went through there
lmfao, i didn't know that i had mongril brothers in r / qc
apes together strong. 
looks like by friday it could top the $ 800
come! we are good here. the river, the mountain and there are good restaurants in the area!
born and raised à otterburn park.  
at 18, i just wanted to leave the suburbs. 15 years later, i would stay there again without any problem. lots of nature and very peaceful, a great place to live if you don't work in montreal!
we're moving there in june, i can't wait!
christie, we should start a sub / r / sainthyacintheetsesbanlieux. / jk
i've lived in mont-saint-hilaire for 4 years, you won't regret moving here!
it's like longeuil but with a mountain.
we moved in 2020 from montreal. you are going to be fine. 👌
you're sure? 
not even, refrigeration!
i cannot believe that we are the only ones talking that we have video proof that mont st-hilaire is used as an intercontinental missile launch base.
i also have the same view from my window.
you're right, i should have activated the third person view mode to really see the beautiful details of the characters
with the temperature, surely!
yessir
bro, i wish in esti. a dream would have been realized
tldr ?
ahhhh wordart. i am so old that there was a time when people flipped over my talents to make documents and presentations!
the need is indeed crying.
just missing the comic without.
source: 
looking at this, i think maybe three-river needs a new logo as well. am i the only one who sees a phallus?
thumbs up to the person who did this!
i imagine the requirements are adobe 10 years / quarkxpress 15 years of experience for 13.80 / hr?
is this a practical application of cunningham's law? in the sense that designers will feel the urge to correct that?
they must have been inspired by [los angeles] ( , but i still give them points for daring.
trois-rivières doesn't even exist
/r/mildlypenis
have seen that the need is crying
oh my god it's excellent i'm dying
the kind of quality work that i offer to those who want to pay me "by showing it to my 5000 followers on twitter"
f*** this made me laugh, i needed that. merci op
i sent this to graphic designer friends, including one from that corner. they are going to have a lot of success with that;)
the person in charge of trois rivières facebook seems to have a lot of fun with his posts!
ça me donne des vibes de ship arriving too late to save a drowning witch de zappa
worse, the research remains in the masculine, the one who did that should come out with a grammar.
i saw it happening on linkedin, i found it ben blood.
we must be of the same generation, the one who witnessed the transition from cardboard signs and acetates to powerpoint!
did your powerpoint presentations have animation for every image (or every letter of text 😱)? bonus if you put a sound.
pew!
pew!
pew!
i knew a business owner who sold a business concept for $ 100,000, he created his clients' logos in word.
i remember using this at school to make banners on punched paper printers!
garish, even.
but no. it's perfect.
and it's already a huge success on the internet.
if they didn't put it in the joke, it's because it's going to be requested by management.
it's still an announce that's meant to be badly drawn, i'm sure the official version isn't so— [ok not the same] ( /logo-v3r-v2017.svg).
it's clearly two hot dog sausages that fell into the crack between the stove and the counter.
no that's the first thing i saw!
usually the city pays well
it's usually on commission and it pays well
/r/troisrivieres
we know
you don't understand, it's exposure. you just have to wait for the market to adapt and you will be able to pay your mortgage and your hydro bill with exposure there. we offer you to be a pioneer, ahead of its time.
with clippy our dear trombone ...
i am clearly of the same generation as the rest of you.
i was the assistant of a professor at the university, on the verge of retirement, who still called powerpoints "transparencies"!
i was doing statistics for him. he was completely overwhelmed by software: he had learned to do statistics on the gigantic computers where you entered your orders with punch cards.
so when we compare ourselves ... we are not that old! (not yet...)
génération [print shop]( represent!
the 10-foot-long banners printed with a matrix printer on accordion-tied sheets ... bzzzzzzzzt! bzzzzzzzzt! bzzzzzzzzt!
ahahah, exactly!
did you get mimeographed sheets ?!
yes, a different animation for each slide and little "humorous" clipart dotted here and there. honestly, even in '98 i thought it was over the top, but the bosses liked it, fak.
the previous generation had the fonts and had to use them all in every text. in short, all the letters looked like ransom demands.
zero astonishment.
now i can't see anything other than a seed that sits on testicles.
don't worry, the rats will eat this, and you can pass the dustbuster afterwards to pick up the droppings.
wait till they invent crypto-exposure, we're gonna be fucking billionaires, man.
rip clippy, we won't forget you!
wow, i was born in 2001 and you managed to make me feel old
ayoye, transparencies, hadn't heard that for a long time :) worse no, we're not old. i think one of the advantages of our generation (let's say early x) is that our relationship with technology has evolved at the same rate as this one for a few decades. so we had a head start for a little while, knowing both the hardware and the software. tk, that's my guess.
there's a lady at my job (not even that old) who still says acetates, it gets on my nerves so much 😂
what was the name of the little black cartoon men already? there was one for all possible activities.
legault in 2 months: there, there ... there were releases in the population. we have to give ourselves an electric shock. i spoke with dr. arruda and i think the best solution would be to put the curfew at 6.30pm. worse, i find it embarrassing that mr. nadeau-dubois wants to see the public health reports that led me to make this decision, damn conspirator
all right, all right, all right
not much that softens as much as for me ... ben, some trade reopen i think?
i work in a grocery store, and let me tell you that yesterday there were parties in the sale
it is such a good time to relax when ontario finds cases of south african and british variants (both more contagious) and that we have delays in vaccine deliveries, in addition to realizing that astrazeneca vaccine is not too effective against the south african variant.
[the discovery report this weekend] ( really does not help me to be reassured when to managing the pandemic here.
édith: [variants en ontario](
edith 2: will clearly have to find my source on ontario; i am being contradicted and it looks a lot even.
édith 3: [y'a le variant brézilien avec...](
edith 4: okay well i can no longer find my source for tightening screws in ontario. thanks / u / i_check_stocks for correcting me.
open the gyms and sports halls, it's urgent!
to find out, because i don't watch the government's speeches a lot, i got used to the same thing to take the news, what's open from today?
edit: why the downvote? lol
check out the spring break ... (the aptly named ...)
little * rant * by the way:
\ - government: "y faut teletravailler"
\ - city: "it's carnaval esti, do you want good decibels right under your accommodation all day?"
fuck y'all
"high school girls..."
i misunderstand; is this meant to be a humorous capsule? or just the same where the prime minister is accused of following the scientific recommendations of public health? and do i see an insinuation that the sanitary instructions are just a government whim that has no other destination than to piss off the lambda pekin?
[deleted]
after the 10th wave: there, we're going to intern a cut in labor camps, dr. arruda and i think it's the best way to weaken the virus once and for all. go join him at the pti 'nadeau-dubois, which he has been doing since the 5th wave there.
i know kkun who knows kkun who has already seen an albino squirrel who watched gnd come out of his house in his dressing gown and fangs put table scraps in his brown bin, damn compostist ...
legault when it's cold in winter: good there, quebecers do not follow the instructions and we can see it, that's why it's cold now.
legault when the weather warms up in the spring: look at how we manage it well, quebeckers were asking for more heat and we listened to them.
"there is no conspiracy." -françois legault 2021
a pandemic we are talking about 3-5 years a return to normal. there are still 2-4 years of his so tie your hat with the xd pin
i understand the reference ... but here is the first thing that came to my mind
[
i hope that this is a first step and that when the cases continue to decline in the coming weeks, that we will move on to a next step.
so far i'm pretty much on the mark in my predictions, for example i predicted in the spring that the cases would go down in the summer and that the virus would be seasonal like all the other fucking coronaviruses, i also predicted that we would have lasting immunity after infection this was for a long time extremely unpopular opinions about this sub. here i predict that we will see the british variant is already here in community transmission, that the media will panic, but that in fact that will not change much.
then in early march we will be at 400 cases per day.
remindme! 4 weeks
yes certain trade becomes accessible again. loosening up doesn't mean removing all restrictions, it's a gradual process.
tsé sa takes people who pay tickets to fill the state coffers.
called you 1-800-covid?
ah.
the cases are rapidly melting in the united kingdom (and south africa) since the beginning of january despite the ubiquitous variants, do you really think that we are not as good as them? we are better than the english, let's see!
[ontario is doing a deconfinement a bit like ours next week] ( -1.5902932)
[deleted]
> ontario tightens the screw because of the south african and british variants
and the new brazilian variant. collect them all!
it's probably going to be like this for the rest of our lives. what do we do ?
many of its measures would not be necessary if most of the population did not act like children who had to be constantly under surveillance. at the start of the pandemic i was flipping over if i had to go to the store, hardly anyone respected the rules, the couple shopped together while persisting with the employee at the entrance who asked them not to come in together, people stuck in stores, took off their masks to talk on the phone, touched everything and the list goes on ...
in short, we are penalized by the fools. personally i am teleworking, my girlfriend takes care of the grocery store and we disinfect as much as possible what we buy, we visit no one, we do not go to the store to "shop". i have a new tank for 6 months i gas just once so i do not go out.
the fact that the rules are easing will not change anything in my daily life i will not go out or see the world.
allow social gatherings of less than 10 people before gyms.
i can't see my family, but people can squeal 30 in a room and sweat like sick, 3-4 times a week?
at least my family would be the same world ... it's 30 unknown people who change almost every day ...
should be the last thing to open.
benchpress at home or run around in your living room.
what's stopping you from running outside and exercising at home? absolutely nothing, it's no more urgent than reopening the cinemas your business
you know what, i used to tell myself that it's good that it's closed. but i've changed my mind since the fools who believe in invisible people suddenly have all the rights.
yes, reopen your gyms and the rest.
i don't go anyway but it's important for others.
non-essential businesses.
orange zone not bad everything but with restrictions and red it is more non-essential shops that are open but without gyms and restaurants
[anything i could find in my on the covid] (
there is a ticket that will be given
it's more of a reminder that even if the rules are relaxed one should continue to follow the recommendations. many people unfortunately abandon all caution at the slightest relaxation. here is my humorous take of the situation where legault makes this reminder by mentoring that it would be cool if the population continues to pay attention.
> reproaches the prime minister for following the ~~ scientific recommendations of public health ~~ his feeling
>  
>  
>  
> i corrected your text
well then. there is solid science behind many of the health measures, such as hand washing, masks, distancing, and vaccines.
i agree that some measures are very limited from a science point of view (like the curfew) and others for which there does not seem to be a reasonable explanation (like the ban on practicing outdoor sports with friends ) but from there to saying "it's out of our control, we can't do anything" it's completely irresponsible.
what you are saying is simply wrong.
look at the number of cases from confined vs unconfined countries.
a simple comparison is united states versus canada. the two countries have "similar" cultures, but here we are confined:
us: 83,126 cases / 1m population, 1,430 dead / 1m
canada: 21,197 cases / 1m population, 547 deaths / 1m.
there is an upward and downward trend as covid appears to be seasonal, but containment efforts save enormous lives.
it's crazy how people in each country seem to attribute the drop to circumstances unique to that country when it is happening everywhere around the same time.
why the fact that the daily cases went from 750k per day to 450k per day in less than a month, no media speak about it? i don't follow the press conferences anymore but did they talk about it? or it's like when we learned in april 2020 that the death rate in the general population was estimated at around 0.5% (and 0.02% among those under 50) and then that the government decided to keep this secret without ever correcting the initial estimates in march which were around 3%.
as you say, the massive general decline in the united states is the best proof that the current measures do not justify the decline. but people prefer to pretend it's not true, i think there are a lot of people who are unable to deal with the fact that there are a lot of restrictions with a lot of impact on our life and health. mental and physical of all and which were possibly for next to nothing in relation to the covid.
it creates a lot of cognitive dissonance and a lot of people prefer not even to have a debate about it; on this sub i find the moderation correct, but many english speaking subs will ban people who cite scientific articles and other scientific data that go against the official narrative. for example, do not talk about the oxford / astrazeneca vaccine, still not approved in canada, on british subs. they approved it over a month ago. the official uk narrative is that it is thanks to a particularly effective vaccination program that they are ahead of canada and the eu. dare to say that there are other countries that have expressed reservations about the company's data, and you will be called a conspirator.
so go to bed with your "natural variations". people who reason like you are part of the problem.
yeah except that we won't stay confined for 3-5 years dude lol
this time if we have a vaccine. if the canadian army finally decides to take over about 10 vaccine plants and start pumping 100,000,000 doses per month, we could be done with covid by the summer.
it would not be 3-5 years back to normal if the leaders had worn their panties and closed everything despite the "drop in cases" of summer 2020
did you listen to 26 minutes and decide to share it after only?
youtube remembered that i had listened for the first 26 minutes, well!
yeah me too
i hope you're right, i'm losing my will to live by dint of seeing no one i love.
i'd rather eat bugs than frozen poutine ...
[deleted]
do you know what bothers me about insects? it's because you eat everything. the eyes, the soft, the hard, the digestive tract ... even the shrimp you will at least remove the digestive tract (the "vein"). i don't eat seafood because i don't like the taste but it's less disgusting (no matter what an oyster ...).
that said, i probably wouldn't have a problem with cricket powder, once it's powdered it's like the rest, you damn yourself a little more.
i like martin picard, but he looks so unclean and unhealthy that it doesn't really make you want to start cooking.
i had to start a strict diet a few weeks ago for health reasons, and as i was looking for new forms of protein that i can eat i decided to look at cricket powder.
it says on the packaging "probably not suitable for people with allergies or intolerances to seafood and shellfish", and that's just one of the things i can't eat anymore ...
come to think of it, it looks great, they are insects that live in water after all.
i've also learned that it's common to have cross-allergies between seafood and dust mites.
i have been diagnosed with an allergy to house dust mites since i was 2 years old and no one had ever seen fit to inform me ...
bibitte marinée
a little gooey, but appetizing!
i know people who are crazy about "seafood" but who say they don't know anything about trying to eat crickets or whatever ... it's nothing to understand for me. personally, i don't like seafood, but i'm open-minded about eating beetles, even if i don't like it all. i read somewhere that shrimp are a kind of cousin of the cockroach ... and in short, it is enough only to take a good look at the "seafood" to realize that it is really just bébittes too, but in water..
thanks i hate seafood now!
thank you for realizing the fact that i don't eat pcq seafood it's disgusting.
i know i think like a 32 year old child .. then yes i ate scallop, shrimp and octopus .. (an octopus sucker salad ...).
yes ultimately it was not "bad" but fuck it's ugly and disgusting !!! not able.
my rule is that if it's beautiful, i want it in my mouth!
a lamb, a cow, chicken .. it's cute !! go hop in my mouth menoum menoum.
martin picard is a national treasure.
y bin a long time kind in 1700 the lobster was considered as the cockroach of the seas
i like ordering from the cabin !!!
both are disgusting
yes, eat your bugs and live in your pods.
bof, the two are disgusting as much as to me!
on the 2nd photo, it gives us a good idea of a martin picard who would take charge and get in shape!
amen
probably better for your health too.
having worked there, i can explain many of this stuff. first, every year there is a shortage of staff, so there is less time to test the recipes. then, it's been almost 15 years that it was the "kitchen of martin". at the moment it's michael picard who takes care of almost the entire menu with a few items that come out of martin's mind (usually the specials). even though michael is good it is not the same approach with the food. if not for the reduction of the sizes it is precisely because the prices not increase. unfortunately, the prices of restaurants in montreal are not rising fast enough compared to the cost of living, mainly because customers are not ready to pay the right price. the way out is to cut portions and underpaid your employees.
if you really want to be happy with your choice when you go, always try to take specials, it's often bigger and i've never been disappointed.
"what pisses off about this restaurant is that the food is disgusting and they don't put a lot of it on the plates" - woody allen
[deleted]
it is really vincent dion-lavallée's cuisine that is worthwhile now, in my opinion.
perhaps it is refining itself and aiming less at fireworks?
true, his cabane dans le temps was one of my best hands down suppers of the year. but the last few years i have been a little disappointed. it's still excellent but it's not the level before
that pretty much sums up catering in quebec. (at least ** to ** quebec)
it makes food, even its food. the kind of business you go there just to say you went and take pictures for your instagram.
it is anti-environmental terrorism too.
i mean do you think what's in the sausages?
(it's not something that bothers me personally because it is less food waste)
in many cultures we even eat the shells of shrimps.
when you eat an oyster, you also eat its heart, intestine, mouth, anus, etc. is not it?
do you know why there is protein in cans of tomatoes? precisely because you eat insects ...
he really looks like a mard boss too. maybe it's just the kitchen world too, but he seems hyper asking for the peanut quo salary he gives his employees. i have no proof, it's just an impression.
a little wake-up call à la jérôme ferrer wouldn't hurt him!
personally, seafood irritates me as much as insects, but if there's a way to avoid seeing their thousand paws, madibules, sections and company, i'm not against it.
> i also learned that it is common to have cross-allergies between seafood and dust mites.
> 
> 
> 
> i have been diagnosed with an allergy to house dust mites since i was 2 years old and no one had ever seen fit to inform me ...
quebec's overburdened health system. it wasn't yesterday. i have a "penicilin allergy" because i had a reaction, like 28 years ago. but i never had a test, nothing. i have no bracelet, nothing at all.
> it says on the packaging "probably not suitable for people with allergies or intolerances to seafood and shellfish", and that's just one of the things i can't eat anymore ...
i have bad news for you if you drink instant coffee ...
[
it's a matter of perspective, it depends on how you were brought up. it is said that in less than 100 years insects will become an important source of food for humanity (nutritious, economical and we will not be able to raise / cultivate enough other sources for the population). i agree with the principle, but i will never eat it, at least not the way it is presented in the meme, it will come out or it came in.
i don't buy cricket powder but i wouldn't mind eating it in anything like a muffin because it's so far from the original shape.
but i'll never eat seafood.
yes yes, it is for his that they are forcing a lot to establish a name "candy" otherwise their popularity would be much less !! "fruit" lmao come on.
> if it's beautiful, i want some in my mouth
you will have nice surprises in your inbox
have you tasted rabbit, horse, bison or kangaroo?
they were given to the prisoners. it has even already caused a prison riot.
take my posivote for daring to say you didn't like seafood. seriously.
> it is excess to the point of feeling bad physically and mentally.
you can have the same effect when you go to kentucky fried chicken, for much less.
> vincent dion-lavallée
that rest?
it is especially michael who tries less to compensate with excess
less and less, if you look at the emerging chefs, more and more it goes towards finesse and farm to table
i would like to know the reasoning of your second point.
from the terroir-ism if you will.
well if you made insect sausages it would probably go a lot better.
* sounds of mouths, snaps and deep breathing *
the echo because of the world not wearing headphones also sounds like voices coming from beyond. what if it wasn't an echo oo
i took many courses at laval university remotely and it was well adapted, i would have thought that in the present universities, laval would be the best adapted given the offer of distance courses and the tools that the university already owns
100% my girlfriend yesterday.
* the meeting organizer did not know how to mute the microphone
* the old woman from the office couldn't connect
* another is not resourceful enough and gives up after 3 minutes
* another uses no headphones faque it makes constant reverb
the meeting never took place because too many people "couldn't" connect.
made for wow, but also applies:
there are 125 of us in my classes, we just write in the austere gray little cat of adobe connect. :-(
a little ready like before the pandemic but with an excuse ...
we laugh, but damn that it's not easy to teach like that. i'm a teacher in laval, in fact, and sometimes i feel like i'm in a control tower: i have to deal with a thousand little technical details at the same time as i try to hold a more or less coherent speech on complex subjects. don't be too harsh: it sounds like nothing, but it's very difficult as an exercise, and that's ignoring the fact that it's really weird to talk pretty much alone in front of a camera for a few hours. . i say all this for the sake of gossip but overall i find the students to be understanding and caring, and it is much appreciated.
edit. that said, equipping yourself a little to do your job well, that seems like the least of things to me. i bought a blue yeti microphone and a good camera this summer and it made a big difference to the quality of the experience.
i work from home and my boyfriend too. our computers are side by side. the phrase that has been repeated the most since last march is: "are you or is it me?" »as soon as a notification is heard.
i thought it was going to be the fact that everything is compressed at the moment to fit 15 weeks into 14 weeks. worst session start ever.
inb4 that someone admits that group video chat just doesn't work, and that everyone prefers to stay in audio conference mode.
almost all alcoholics anonymous meetings are now also virtual.
ha! i have a teacher who constantly shouts into his microphone. it is the festival of supersaturation.
no, seriously, it's really not that bad. it depends on the faculties i think.
you forgot the coward at the office who feigns connection problems just to save himself from the meeting ...
sometimes a good conference call would suffice! do you need to see each other's faces ?!
such!
there are about 500 of us in one of my classes. we use webex (a kind of zoom) where the option to raise your hand is not clear so everyone tries to ask their question by cutting off the teacher. a beautiful mess!
> the little gray cat
a little gray cat, like that? 
this is what we used last year when i was doing a distance certificate. sounds much better to me for lessons than zoom.
don't lose hope, adobe connect is finally finishing!
indeed, we laugh a lot but in general i am really satisfied with the quality of the courses during a pandemic. the teachers are understanding about the exceptional situation and the students are adapting well i think.
we have two colleagues who work from home. honestly, it's a kid.
they are always mixed together and never manage to put on headphones, so the sound reverbs constantly. in addition, they haven't even made a workspace that makes sense in the last 8 months.
yeah how's it going? i am in an internship, i only registered for one course. it seemed like a normal start to the session. but full time it might be more funky.
it's less worse than in the fall. it was 12 weeks.
how is it going for them? it's hard? is it less easy to stay sober under these conditions?
haha i had a teacher like that. i told him twice during the session, but it didn't change anything.
at the end, in the evaluation of the course, i put: "the sound of your microphone was really aggressive at 8pm! it may be worth investing in a better mic."
don't worry, the teacher had a good sense of humor and i left him some great comments besides that!
yeah, the fsg is doing okay. it's just a shame for the labs.
at the faaad it's number 1 !!
lol. my girlfriend was whining because it was outside of her working hours. she also told me that the meeting could probably be an email.
as for the phone, i hate it. he is truly an outdated medium. when there are several of us on the line, there is noise, we cut ourselves off while speaking, and then we lack information when we hear badly.
the vtc is great because we have the chat to leave notes or post a comment, we can share a file and links, we see who is speaking, and the sound with image conveys the message more clearly.
haha! this week we had a lab on teams, so we had our microphones for the first time and a dude interrupted the teacher to say he was on drugs.
i used webex for the first time ajd ... a disaster
no, more austere, like this:
kitty
* see the link *
listen here, you little shit...
omg, i want one!
bof, the teachers are often disconnected, the sound works regularly, the interface is ugly to death, i cannot listen to the videos on my cell even if i have the application ... i taught with zoom and that seemed better to me.
hey boy, it's not easy for everyone to work at home! fortunately, my boyfriend and i have jobs that don't require meeting often. if that had been the case, we would not have put our computers next to each other, but surely in separate rooms.
by having 14 weeks of lessons instead of 15, everyone thought that we would have the material of 14 weeks ... and no! the subject of 15 weeks over 14 weeks!
for 5 lessons, it looks like individual assignments to be handed in each week + team projects for the session + study the material weekly.
[deleted]
i think it's less easy to stay sober under these conditions. some of us participate without video. how can you be sure that they even come sober to meetings? it is much easier to hide behind a screen than to be in a room of people. also, i miss the fellowship that you get from physical meetings and have to put more effort into going out and there are more opportunities to do service like making coffee and putting chairs and handouts for me. the meeting.
indeed! for my computer lessons it was perfect to do this remotely. the teachers were ready.
faintness!!!
are you in cegep? pcq if so, it is normal!
huh ... what kind of "lab" is done on teams?
was it in the psychopathology course?
oh yes. i wondered how a cat, even gray, can be austere, but i see that indeed, a gray cat can indeed be austere.
ah it must have varied from one cegep to another
thank you for sharing! be strong and don't be shy about asking for help! there is a better life at the end of your fight! you can do it!
give me autism, and then crack the specter in the background so that i will no longer be able to read these fools there please.
edit: i should specify crinkle me in the spectrum until non-functional. i know that the spectrum is wide and that a good portion of the people above have nothing to envy against so-called "normal" people. i really don't want to insult anyone on the spectrum.
you forgot: we don't want to send our children to school, we want to send our children to day camps.
the iq curve in the population [it's like a bell] (
the pandemic shows that there are 50% who are on the left side.
but no, there is a chip in the vaccine. so that bill gates can follow us everywhere (as if our 34 electronic things weren't already doing it)
there aren't enough spelling mistakes in this meme
one of my autistic clients told me a secret: there is a bill gates chip in the syringe.
so true!
wouldn't it have occurred to you that between those who slowed down for the lack of a mask and those who didn't want to put it on, they weren't the same people?
quite precise like grandma
it's ** absolutely striking ** the contrast for the masks.
i work in a small neighborhood pharmacy. in march, it was the first time in my life that i saw clients yelling at us, because we had a limit per client for masks. they are all usually friendly.
now, we have to fight with them so that they wear them correctly ...
where did the cat's photo come from?
pi ta those who just say from the start that we should protect people with weakened health systems and old people in chslds and the rest to go on with our lives as we see fit.
but fuck we pass for conspirators according to vat and their fafans.
imagine believing that the one and only reason people don't trust this vaccine is because they are delusional.
it is almost as if quebec had 8.5 million inhabitants who share different and contradictory opinions from one group of people to another.
autistic people are often very good at reading (and editing wikipedia). if you want to decrease your intellectual capacities i suggest reality tv instead.
i'm on the spectrum, i read them and get angry just as much, it's so illogical!
i am very mildly autistic. we can read very well, but it depends on the degree of autism. but, anyways, we read that and then we're just as enraged by these idiots as you are. even more so when they suggest it would be better for their children to be dead than autistic.
> crinkle the specter
what a wonderful expression, i love it!
haha! absolutely !
95 of iq is okay. we especially forget that ~~ 25% ~~ 16% of the population is under 85.
however, we do not see much of the 50% on the right.
edit : 
but for the left, we see it quite a bit here!
> the pandemic shows that there are 50% who are on the left side.
no need for a pandemic for that ...
i know a couple of conspirators, and i guarantee their problem has nothing to do with their iq.
what sources lead you to believe that it is a gaussian distribution?
bill gates just wants to sell more licenses for windows, obviously.
was she using an iphone or an android?
his pc is windows or mac?
at least she has an excuse she
yes, it occurred to me, but do the exercise to report back to last march, the context was very different.
here nobody thought if it did not fit with the agenda on the left, forget it
i understand but i think this avenue is a bit simplistic. there are a lot of very qualified people who think about all this, but today an opinion based on a superficial knowledge in a field seems to have more value than the recommendations of experts. it is even more complex when other disciplines are to be considered.
i don't listen to tva. i read articles by scientific experts and various journalistic articles where rigor is required while keeping a critical mind so as not to fall into intellectual shortcuts. the pandemic is boring for everyone and the best solution for the situation to improve is by wearing a mask and getting vaccinated ... even if some believe the opposite.
sorry if you categorize yourself as a conspirator after reading my meme.
it's a joke. this is representative of the most extreme cases but not necessarily of everyone. it is quite understandable that one is reluctant to be bitten when one knows that vaccines normally take more than a year to develop.
but hey, the vaccines still went through a testing process that was accelerated but not badly comprehensive. i have no objection to taking this vaccine, and the doctors i know personally are of the same opinion. each has their own struggles.
people don't want the vaccine for stupid reasons (chip, control, 5g, autism (!), etc) when there are examples in history that confirms to me that i don't want to take this vaccine too quickly .
during the polio pandemic, many children were infected pcq doctors did not give the right dose. this is the delirium: they "got informed" and stuffed their heads with bullshit, when the facts and history could prove them right. but they are idiots.
i don't see any other reason.
is there another one?
different opinions? on r / quebec? forget that.
let's say that the opinions presented above have in common that they are a little ... nutty.
i rephrase, because mental health is serious business. the opinions presented above have in common that they are quite acceptable from people in anxiety attacks, psychosis or certain mental health disorders. on the other hand, in healthy people, it is more frightening because it suggests a dangerous stupidity (not for the pq, eh).
just in case someone reads this and feels judged (it does, but without aggression):
it took a million years for microsoft to release an os (software, their specialty) that doesn't mess up the moment you step out of the box. it's crazy to think that they could release something totally and absolutely revolutionary in terms of miniaturization (hardware, not their specialty). we will not even talk about the control of individuals. it's good in hentai, but in real life?
the pandemic is deadly and even when it isn't, it can leave you on the sidelines for life with the lungs of an asthmatic smoker whose barbecue has exploded. the resistance to the "islamic" mask is just .. abnormal.
almost, but no.
there is a winning of cellars who think like idiots (cave-idiots) and what is sad is that most of them know that they are right next to the hunt, but do not give up because getting on board in good stalking also means that their lives must change temporarily for the common good and that is too much for them ... so they clear their stupid actions with idiotic ideologies.
dude occupation double was so good
they are extremely good at visuals and mathematics too. it depends on autism actually.
better yet, new vat.
so true, i can't believe that many people would rather have sick or dead children than autistic ones. the way people with autism are viewed is really unhealthy.
in fact it's supposed to be around 10-15% which is below 85, sources vary. but to assert 25, i admit that i would be curious to see the data. it would be pretty sad, though ...
and according to the 80/20 rule, it doesn't surprise me that they are the ones who make the vast majority of the noise ...
> yet we do not see much of the 50% on the right.
we're busy doing something other than arguing on reddit.
^^^ .... oops!
iq has literally been defined to follow a normal distribution
by injecting one directly into the veins?
linux, let's see.
i'm not on the left and i don't see what the left has to do in this meme.
no, i understand your point. but i still find it funny that we got so much done with a vaccine but never public health talks about exercising, eating healthy and taking vitamins to fill the gap. nope there just say to squeal a mask pi stay at home. hey, how is your more likely to get sick playing team sports than going to the costco or the super club?
isn't it everyone's goal to make as much money as possible for as little work as possible? i always believed that was the goal of the business world, there is no one who wants to do as much work as possible for the lowest possible remuneration. seems to me that this is just a basic cost-benefit calculation !?
>"now there's this kind of entitlement... it's about doing the least while getting paid the most"
lmao
that's not entitlement, that's rational behavior
inflation is mongolian, there are jobs available almost everywhere, workers can shop for jobs and negotiate their conditions.
cooking for 15 years, conditions of mustard, salary of late, schedule of late. serve take-out in a restaurant of the most normal to double my salary thanks to the tip with zero experience. i arrive home before 10 pm and my cash register is 20 minutes. any dep other than cooking pays better than 15 years in the kitchen.
minimum wage, minimum effort
i'm curious anyway, if before your student job was to work in restaurants, now what is it?
which student jobs are paying better now?
before it was pcre, now it's a culture change.
could someone go and put a mirror in front of them, so they can see the monster in the room?
[deleted]
by the way, quebec is the canadian province with the highest rate of students who work during their studies.
/r/antiwork
when are they going to realize that it's not because of the 'laziness' of the young people? with the pcu which is no longer there but that the vacancies are not filled, it is a glaring example that it is a [demographic problem] ( / job-a-shortage-with-several-factors): many old people and not enough young people to take over.
does the world want to be exploited anymore ?? how come?
i had been a cook for 10 years before the covid ($ 20 / h). now i have returned to school full time to become a biologist and i work part time as a representative for a microbrewery collective ($ 25 / hr with travel allowances once my gas has been paid). i work alone, i choose my hours according to my lessons and i have free beer from time to time. no regrets.
imagine a world in which employers have to pay well and treat their employees well to keep them ...
at 36 years old today, i can say that all my student jobs, minimum wage or not, unionized in a shop or not, have treated me like shit, paid me the minimum possible, put me in danger, despised me for the simple fact that he could because i needed a job and someone would have taken it if i left.
so much the better for this generation! if a business is profitable, its employees should live well and feel safe on the job.
i'm not totally against a price hike for a salary hike. we may be there too. if goods and services are more expensive, we may stop wasting madly because it costs less to buy a new one than to repair our bébelles.
it is important to mention that the proportion of young people (14-20 years old) who work, even part-time, has been decreasing for several years.
we are faced with a multitude of factors that contribute to this shortage and this long before the covid. this has probably accelerated the process and wages that have been dragging their feet for decades will surely not help ...
'entrepreneurs / restaurateurs' can close their business if it is so difficult, and go and serve in their neighbor's restaurant. solidarity let's go!
the entity penetrates those swollen heads that claim to revolutionize gastronomy with duck poutine. your project, dream, we wash our hands of it. it is not a right or a necessity to start a business.
little news the clowns, the staff you don't * have * right to it. it is not a renewable resource that you can simply pump into your business like the gas you put in your beautiful tank to make it run, nor furniture that you select for hiring according to your tastes and your biases as you. do it at maison corbeil to decorate your 'comfy' condo in griffintown.
the cultural shift must go back to the source and see rather than a human resource, real people who are no longer ready to accept to 'fuel your business,' furnish 'your rental space, in short stop up a' lack of staff ' under any condition while the bosses laugh around a ricard and fill their pockets (or at least asprient to do it on their backs).
wake up the 'entrepreneurs', because the 'staff' at the bottom of the bat
oh how the turn tables
recently i quit a job that i held for 5 years and which offered me a not worse salary (23 per hour and in some companies, for the same position you could enter with 30). but i hated my job. it was not stimulating, it was poorly managed, often under pressure because of the management ...
i left everything to go for a dep in cooking because that was what i had always wanted to do. i left montreal, i went to live in gaspé to court. i knew very well on the other hand that here it rolls sick in the summer. weeks of 60-70h is normal. worse, honestly, i have no problem working hard and doing long shifts. i just don't want my life to be this. i have personal projects also worse at a rate of 18-19 $ per hour i will see the bottle.
i decided to go and work as a cook in hospitals. it’s a good compromise. i don't do big food (i spoil myself at home) but i have a stable schedule, a decent salary, social benefits and the assurance of having a job all year round.
this summer i had a discussion with my wife's grandfather, who has a restaurant for her in the corner. he was complaining that he couldn't find a staff because of the pcu. i tried to make him understand that if i decide to buy a house and have 2 children while working in a restaurant, i will not have a damn cent (and you have to think about retirement inside, no pension fund generally in restoration). he didn't want to understand anything. "young people are cowards, they want to be able to work blah blah". the guy is an entrepreneur. he worked hard for his business and i tip my hat to him for that. but it's not a life for everyone. people are starting to understand that life is not necessarily the job. i want to see my children, i want to buy a house, i want to travel, i want to be able to take care of my vegetable garden in the summer. it is not a matter of wanting to work or not. it's a matter of wanting to live.
i understand that the profit can be slim in catering (generally, the price of the plate is about 3x the cost of the cost of food. after you have to pay the insurance, you have to pay your employees, the premises, etc. ). it is not a business that is easy to run but that is the choice of the owners. i also made my choice, worse now, catering is not.
afterwards, quebeckers must understand that instead of going to eat at mcdo pis au tim 3-4-5 times a week instead of going to a local restaurant because "it's expensive, we can't afford that. “, well that does not help the situation.
we're just fed up with being exploited. don't look too far either
my boss called us to his office 1 by 1 to tell us that he was aware that the world of work had changed and he was wondering what he could do to make us happy.
i gave him the salary i was aiming for in the long term in my career and he increased me 20% on the spot. according to the statistics, i was already well paid given my experience, now i am well above average.
i also have group insurance, an rrsp with contribution, a flexible schedule to death, paid studies if i want to improve ... i work for an sme. being small is no reason to mistreat your staff. loyalty is a two-way street.
working less and earning more is a bit the principle of capitalism. who works the most between a worker and a banker and which of the two earns the most?
unfortunately, this situation will not last forever. the rich always end up winning, that's capitalism too. they will import cheap labor, they will introduce austerity, they will slash our social gains, etc.
i applied for positions in restaurants that were posting jobs online. they tell me that i have to go there with my cv. i show up between rush hours, for example 2:30 p.m. as requested. they don't have time to meet me ... 3 places did that to me ... maybe if you took the time to meet me you wouldn't be so in the rush esti.
i'm from a generation where we were told, “go to school. start at the bottom of the ladder. take some experience. prove yourself. ” all in a context of cuts, limited opportunities and resistance of all kinds. i worked for a long time to build something that was not going to exist.
so much the better if the youngest have regained some bargaining power. we were due for a return of the pendulum. having respected myself more, i could have saved some money.
as for this discourse of "young people" who want to have everything without having anything to do, it is not new. it is up to each generation to get on the nerves of the old people who have known the opposite and reduce their ardor to bitterness. it is not an attitude that opposes generations, but a mentality that opposes social groups, even if it tends to impose itself on everyone, whether out of ambition or out of spite.
it remains to be seen whether zs will generally work for or against having to be rich. they have a big slope to go up ...
the irony of the image being a heir to the steinberg fortune + the fact they own a very mediocre extremely overpriced establishment 😂
who is the cellar who wants to do more for less?
tse-tse when you truncate the quote to make the wicked restaurateur look bad ...
the price of plates in restaurants are increasing all the time but the salaries remain the same.
it is as if the events of the last two years had made us reconsider our priorities and had made many realize the absurdity of working for a pittance in the great machine of unbridled capitalism.
eh ben.
just look at the job market to see that 70% of jobs don't pay enough for the work they ask for.
for my part, i am not in the restaurant business, but the company i work for is bragging about an increase of 10 cents an hour. "we are lucky" they say.
pay your employees and have better conditions, there won't be so many problems finding people.
not from quebec but bc and same sentiments out here
it's just that before the boss said: do the job or someone else will do it.
asteur: there is no one who wants to work why would i pay enough to barely eat
people have come to realize that being treated like shit for low pay is not worth it. this will help reduce the number of work-related mental disorders.
r/antiwork
or maybe the economic climate that allowed you to underpay and overwork your employees has shifted, leaving your management style where it belongs - in the past.
it's called millennials and zoomers who are in the workforce.
who raised these people? ah yes, the baby boomers and the xs. to have seen our parents work so much for so little and have no free time, it's normal that we think like that.
we don't live to work, we work to live.
i generalize a lot, but you understand the principle.
cry. mr. a. river. it remains their business. why would i feel bad? they are therefore let loose the bosses. i thought it made money because it worked crazy hours and it wasn't afraid of the work. i guess they really need cheap labor ... why don't they lower their boss salaries so they can hire a higher salary? ha yes it's true we can just do that to the poor. it is not done in reverse ...
oh no! young people don’t want to work shit jobs that don’t even allow them to pay rent of their own place! goodness gracious it’s almost like… your business model sucks if you can’t pay someone and then ask them to shoulder more than any other office job.
what do i like reading articles like that.
broken industry, needs fixing.  no remorse.
*conservatives getting mad at the results of a free market*
oh no! anyway.
i am an employer. i consider myself a good employer. i am not offering a mard salary. i offer good employment conditions. i also consider, like the person in the tweet, that there is a * cultural shift * which makes it more difficult to find people willing to work.
that doesn't take away from the fact that there are a lot of difficult jobs with poor restaurant salaries, but i also believe that there is something bigger, generational.
saudite workers! how dare they participate in capitalism efficiently!
/s
because i wanna get yelled at by customers for minimum wage
friendly reminder that this woman's family are millionaires and that she went to a super expensive culinary school. she is so out of touch with the reality of the working class it's hilarious. she tried to backtrack the statement by saying that the gazette took her out of context , how pathetic. i hope someone eggs her house
why work hard for a salary that will not  keep me afloat. pay up and employees will show up.
there are a lot of position open that pays 18$ hour but why go there and know i lt will be hard to live with this wage.
xd people are finally tired to overwork in shitty restaurants but ofc its because they are lazy its certainly not because of bad pay rates and impossible schedule … fuck restaurants ill eat at home itll cost less
"it's the fault of the employees who no longer want a medieval serf salary to be insulted, disgusted and harassed in a field that is recognized worldwide for being boring and disrespectful to the staff."
a special observation, say.
yeah because the ceos spend 8 hours in a 37 ° kitchen
another case that would help a lot: let's stop treating customers like kings. and as customers, let's step off our pedestal.
customers who treat employees like shit .... serious.? are not paid to endure your nervous breakdown or your attempt to take control over your life. are paid to help you consume. like, michel, get off the hook because you waited 10 minutes for the clerk to buy your mower, johanne, calm down if your salad "light vinaigrette croutons on the side and a glass of water with a slice of orange and a lime wedge 'isn't exactly how you wanted it.
it's not the end of the world.
c'est fucké, i can smell this picture.
no matter what people say about it, i love my city.
we have a good city anyway, we should like it more times.
is the church on the roof? there is something that does not do ...
i just moved to montreal for my studies and frankly it's a wicked beautiful city. i love living here.
a-ha. you are in monville.
enfirouappé
which street is it?
when will 《montreal the beautiful fat english》?
looks like a video game. sick
i love my city. best move of my life to be moved here!
no, it's just big bones.
who is gros by toutatis? i'm a little wrapped up that's all! belenos!
looks like gotham
op are you in one of the brand new condo towers on the south side? (i forgot the name of the project)
i was wondering how are you in this development 🤔
despite all the criticisms i can have of it, i must say that i love montreal too.
i look at this photo, and all i see is my house.
i too have literally lived in an apartment with the window in the foreground.
i will love it the day the works are going to be finished and then they will stop removing parking to try to imitate european cities. we are not in copenhagen here people often have to leave the island to work and etc.
the ground is going up a bit, that's why it looks like it's raised
no, it's the perspective that gives that impression.
from the gauchetiere. we look west towards beaver hall, national bank on the left, then bell canada in the middle (very beautiful heritage building) and telus etc on the right.
bilingual fat bacon
if you don't want to see any work, to have parking always accessible and not to hear any noise, you could go and live in abitibi ...
if you think bicycles are not part of the solution to the problem, you are part of the problem.
that's what i thought, but it's cool as well!
bohemian cycling is all well and good, but it does not apply to everyone's situation. there are people with children who need to be escorted away from the island for a variety of reasons. if you think putting bike lanes everywhere without consulting people is a solution, you are part of the problem.
yeah anyway it's a beautiful optical illusion!
as far as i know, the roads still exist.
nah, the people named in these leaks know full well that nothing is going to happen to them. at worst, there is a journalist who will pass there with a bomb in his car ...
source: the last two leaks of the genre.
well, no matter how much they talk about the pandora papers, no one is going to arrest the king of jordan or the former prime minister of the united kingdom, and the business leaders will just thicken the envelopes ... at worst they will leave 2-3 people are symbolically lynched and then continue what they have always done
the world is so heavy with it. i understand the cynicism, but calvary everyone repeats in unison that will not change anything and the big upvote and bravos from everywhere. but no one is going to praise the gigantic work of the journalist consortium just to say; haha are going to be killed by suicide ahaha lol xd with lots of upvote.
have you never read 1984? the proletariat is only interested in puerilities.
\+1000
there would have to be two other people without microphones and that would say frances haugen (facebook whistleblower) and ftc lawsuit. employees who could conveniently enter something told me that they may be destroying some additional evidence.
honestly with what happened to the paname papers and epstein i fear for the life of frances haugen.
exact !!
coudon, is it made a sub of shitpost / r / quebec?
this is relatively true but at the same time the pandora papers have been around for a while
one is not more important than the other. facebook is a cancer that must be brought under control. i would even say that its impact on society is much greater than that of the millionaires who evade taxes.
the classic: suicide by two bullets in the back of the head
> at worst, there is a journalist who will pass there with a bomb in his car ...
this is what depresses me the most about this news today.
forget it, letting 2 people get lynched would be admitting fault. it would give hope that justice exists for the rich too.
it’s going to be like the panama papers, they’ll kill anyone who tries to act, they’ll hijack the news, and cause us to lose all hope of justice. soon we will be so desensitized that it will even cause the news to have this kind of "scandal".
> no one will go and arrest the king of jordan
can you still [request a refund?] ( )
"no one is going to go and arrest the king of jordan or the former prime minister of the united kingdom"
why would we go arrest them? there is nothing to indicate that they did anything illegal ... what is shocking is that this is permitted by the laws of the vast majority of states in the world, including canada.
good ... thanks for participating in the circle jerk! enjoy your upvotes.
... or are you secretly doing something about it?
especially since a lot of the business was done as a result of the panama papers (which are only annoying to the average guy with no idea they took place) and the assassinations had more direct links to local plots than the panama papers did. that such. but hey, reddit does like reddit does.
[deleted]
in total, the * pandora papers * is an estimate of $ 32 trillion of fraud, it is not the `` small '' millions in question ... it is 32 million millions, a little over 4000 $ for every human on the planet, from the richest to the poorest (even those who have never seen a computer in their life).
it's 167 jeff bezos.
this is almost 18 times the gdp of canada.
it's almost 14 * apple * (whose name appears in the list).
that's 2.5 million from françois lambert.
that's the equivalent of 34 times the value of * facebook *, i don't think it has much less of an impact on society than the social network itself.
or an epstein as they said in the middle
yen has one that blew up with a bomb in the car during the panama papers seems to me too.
already the majority of people are angry as long as it does not affect their lives. just looking at the difference in reaction between pp time and facebook crash
you can always ask, and they can always say no haha
well yes, but the king was the state before his head was cut off.
cool. okay, now let's talk about lottery and sports ... oh, and don't forget double occupation and star académie!
epstein'ed
he committed suicide
but… it affects their (our) life this shortfall in unpaid (“legally avoided”) taxes.
[removed]
yes, thank you for not being as lazy as i am, that's the one i had in mind!
edith: let's see i was thinking about another sub on the same subject. forza françâ pis tout.
reeeeeeport
rule 2, no insults.
at last. how to make the governor general's job interesting
no, shit. a 6-figure salary for a royal approver position, the job is to sign in place of the monarch. you have no decision to make, no choice. you could be replaced by a stamp.
if you find a way to screw up the mess you're too qualified and it's better to find yourself a friendly job.
nice
looks like a row of fleur-de-lys on [his mittens] (
i still do not understand the point of the monarchy in canada today. i know that in quebec there is almost no symbolism. but in canada, who is unironnically monarchist?
the same rolls in the evening!
this meme is getting extremely popular for a reason
## small anthology twittwerien and others:
[bernie in space] (
[bernie in the snow with monon'c legault] (
[bernie et le castor](   
[bernie and it turns] (
[bernie and the black hole] (
[bernie in space \ (bis \)] (
[bernie is hitchhiking on the moon] (
[bernie on the moon] (
[bernie and the flag on the moon] (
[bernie on the way to tralfamadore] (
[bernie on planet tralfamadore] (
[bernie on her way to mars] (
[bernie sur mars](  
[bernie sur oumuamua](  
[bernie the emperor] (
[bernie on the way to jupiter] (
[bernie, you are my son!] (
[bernie returning from space] ( fymy1-2.fna & oh = 44da38aecbf6f4cd2c7005aa9f62f937 & oe = 60318fb5).
[bernie gets rink ragged] (
[bernie in the shire] (
[bernie more in the shire] (
[bernie put out fires] (
[bernie tests his mittens] (
[bernie goes skiing without skis] (
le biden lol
i'd do the job for less ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
there are extremely rare situations where the governor general can settle dead ends. for example, when stephen harper wanted to prorogue parliament while the plc, the ndp, and the bloc were preparing to replace it with the first coalition government in canadian history, it was governor general michaëlle jean who slice. there was no real precedent or custom to follow (although there was no shortage of arguments from both sides of the question as to what she supposedly should do) and she decided.
in theory, the governor general is also a kind of emergency brake of last resort against the extreme slippages of a government. when you consider that it is common to have the almost absolute power of a majority government with around a third of the vote (and that it is possible to do it with potentially much less than that as the parties multiply) , this is not a function to be taken too lightly. otherwise a government could, for example extreme, make it illegal to run for another political party and use the notwithstanding clause to go to court.
this does not mean, however, that the current system is the right one and that there is no room for improvement. making this power more democratic (and less centralized?) would be a good thing. but having a “break glass in an emergency” instance isn't a great idea, even if it costs a few hundred thousand dollars a year.
technically it almost burst into a constitutional crisis in 2008, the gg did its job which almost never happens, but happens, and has decided.
on the other hand yeah they have teams of emeritus constitutional advisers so in general it's quite simple.
it just takes someone really flat and neutral in a corner who has the impartiality to legitimately rule when the constitution goes wrong. david johnson was perfect for the job: no one remembers his passing.
maybe we could ask the queen herself to do the telecommuting job?
does this confirm a secret code from bernie for a free and socialist quebec? : o
[deleted]
there are quite a few monarchists in the roc in the sense of people who are really enthusiastic about the idea of the monarchy as such. usually the attitude is that it doesn't really hurt so it's not worth making a fuss and changing things.
and i think the queen of england and buckingham palace at large don't give a shit about it.
me, it reassures me to have a mainly symbolic body above the political class. as mentioned in another comment here, the monarch (his representative, in fact) has the power to rule in certain cases where the rules are not clearly set.
i'm hopeful that it would also prevent a trump junior from doing too much damage in canada, if ever we made the mistake of electing one.
the secret is in the mittens.
i'll do it for more
i absolutely agree with the "rare" extreme situations.
currently this is not the case.
we are talking about someone who bites his staff and who flips because the plebs wave in his garden.
if it bothers her so much she just had to do like several of her predecessors and deny access. the majority do.
she spent her time biting up on domestic conditions.
shut the fuck up
concerning the coalition ... did she really decide anything? she just accepted the partisan prorogation of the conservative party which was going to block or postpone the coalition that was going to cause their downfall it seems to me. in short, she did nothing, she just accepted stephen harper's filthy move.
> by the first coalition government in canadian history
not quite. there were the liberals with the ndp some 50 years ago, and a couple of others (i'm just lazy to look) before.
quebec + vermont = one country!
touch
the gg is imperatively apolitical so as long as a trump respects the constitution he does what he wants. its job is precisely to validate that government procedures are constitutional. if he gets out of these limits the queen will kick him out and he will surely end his life in prison.
judging whether a law is constitutional becomes the job of the supreme court. this power is happily shared. a growing problem is the politicization of this body which can increasingly interpret laws and do whatever it wants with them.
the institution that protects against political drifts is the senate, which is appointed by the gg which will not participate directly. they can propose bills as long as they do not touch the money in general. also the veto. anti-trump protection is more where it can come from. in the us they are elected and partisan, whereas here they are appointed by a normally impartial party, there are pros and cons. it's the same with the supreme court.
the house of commons is the elected officials, they introduce laws and have more powers, such as the ability to demand the resignation of the pm and elections.
by convention, the senate leaves a lot of the house of commons to do and even if it is possible, the last senator named pm dates from 1896.
all this to say that the system is really divided into responsibilities so as not to have dangerous centralization.
maybe now we should call it "bidaines" ??? it would fit well with the pronunciation when you have a cold ...
i'd do it for exactly the same amount.
yeah, we agree that here there was really no reason for her to do anything other than take it easy and be quiet ...
> we are talking about someone who bites his staff and who flips because the plebs wave in his garden.
if this is her main problem, she had only to go to the citadelle of quebec, and she would have had peace there ...
someone has a link to an article or other which details what she is biting about and etc? genuinely curious, i don't know the bottom of the story, and it sounds way too crunchy for me not to read it ...
it's been going back a bit so please correct me if my memory serves me correctly, but at the time it was not clear whether the prime minister could ask for a prorogation without the consent of parliament itself. as the constitution gives the power to prorogue (or not) the parliament to the governor general and that there was no well-established precedent, it is mrs. jean who established the rule. she could well have asked mr. harper to seek parliamentary approval before doing so (as she does with bills), in which case the coalition would have refused and brought down his government to replace him. with theirs.
not in the national context. there was a coalition at the time in british columbia in the 1940s, however.
the liberals and the ndp have never been in a coalition.
i say yes! vive bernie our president of quebec (with vermont and other nearby cities willing to follow us)
i say that we include the maritimes as well.
most of the things you mentioned are also present in the united states (senate, supreme court, etc.), under their famous principle of "checks and balances". however, when all these organs are opposed, it creates a blockage in the process, which can jeopardize the continuity of the state. we have seen it several times in recent years in the united states; the "government shutdowns".
it does not happen in canada, and the fact that we have a monarch who is "above" political power, who has the power to intervene when the house of commons is not doing its job is not there. foreigner.
neither the court nor the senate could intervene in this case.
edit: i found a source that explains how the monarchy intervenes to avoid "shutdowns": 
don't you want to account for inflation ..?
no, the plebs walk in their courtyard.
in fact, the pm can always ask for a prorogation without the consent of parliament. however, the presumed custom at the time was that if an outgoing government did not win the majority of seats, it could attempt to maintain the confidence of the chamber. in the event that the government is defeated on the throne speech or other motion involving the confidence of the chamber, the governor general could have asked the official opposition if he could form a government with the confidence of the chamber. if so, dion would have become pm.
the variable changing everything, on the other hand, was whether the gg had to approve any request for extension from the pm, including in the case where the maneuver was clearly in order to avoid facing either a vote of confidence or a motion of no confidence. the answer, since 2008, seems to be yes, thus demonstrating an increase in the power of the pm within the executive vs. the other components (including the monarch and its representative)
> the liberals and the ndp have never been in a coalition.
[yes, between 1972 and 1974.] (
yes, but the principle that i have subtly underlined is that our concept of gg which legitimizes several of them greatly prevents partisanship in the instances which could block as much here (it is totally and legitimately possible) but do not do so since it's not a democrat vs republicans battle at any level. the gg has a little more power with its position in the house of commons but you really have to push the plug to get there.
i am not saying that there is no biased senator here, for example, but it is extremely mitigated.
in return, we are less democratic.
then i'll do it for 5% less per year!
do not.
a coalition is when more than one party is in the government (hence the cabinet). the result of the 1972 election was a minority government where the trudeau government was * supported * by the ndp. there was no new democrat in trudeau's cabinet. the government has been entirely liberal.
..promise no toxic work climate and is all yours 1
yes, agent, this cadillac escalade is for delivering drugs.
staying at home ... it is priceless! 😁
well, i'm gonna buy an uber eats backpack for my bike
if everything is closed before 8:00 p.m., where do you need to pick up your car to go?
request a waiver letter = $ 0
"borrow" your neighbor's dog = $ 0
stay at home and listen to district 31 = $ 0
do doordash: paid to be outside after curfew
bcp too smart, you could be a doctor instead of a delivery man.
a full wrap costs much more than $ 1000
yes sir, this fentanyl is produced legally from my home until the pjc, with my aveo 2003.
♫ "at jean-coutu we find everything, even an a - libi!" ♫
do you get enfirwapper by wrapping your tank?
pharmacies and gas stations are exempt from closing at 8 p.m., except it's not like pjc does evening delivery lol
8am it's morning! if you mean 8pm, say the right thing or write 8pm. we have the chance in french to avoid the am / pm dilemma by using the 24h system so use it! / rant over
we laugh, but i had my pizza hut delivered by a cadillac 4x4 two weeks ago. true story!
is it for horse doses?
not popular opinion: i enjoy staying at home 🤣
*taps his temple*
that's very bright 🤣
too bright, go cycling at 9pm in january ....
big brain
wait, are food deliveries allowed?
it's like spring. it would have taken a nail bar to land the tv world in february and the second they announced the lockdown, everyone discovered a passion for the outdoors.
there you tell them to stay home after 8pm and everyone has a nighttime cross-country ski emergency.
as strange as it may sound, there are activities you can do outside, in the winter, at night. i liked to go fishing or go on a ski-doo / 4-wheeler. some of them played hockey. there's just that to do anyway in small towns.
i like to walk downtown at night, because i'm not originally from montreal. just walk ... but now i respect the curfew ...
not me, but some have mentioned on reddit that they like doing “tank rides” after work to decompress.
the restaurants close at 7:30 p.m. so that everyone can go home.
edit: apparently i'm wrong, oops.
only the pharmacy side (drugs) is open after 8 p.m. for emergencies.
are you better michel?
right, tyl?
the proprio, no doubt.
it is not as rare as one might think of delivery men in "beautiful" tanks. yen who buy a tank and deliver it as a side line to pay for it. i have already seen an uber eats delivery man in a tesla model s ...
one of my ubereats delivery guys a while ago was in a mercedes of the year. it was hot!
haha me that was my uber eats - the guy arrived with a brand new lexus! worse me with an old hyundai in the driveway ...
*laughs in gamer
it's no problem riding a bike in january with good studded tires.
[deleted]
ouep
night cross-country skiing ... it sounds more exciting than doing it during the day! bonus: no one sees me half dead on a hill because i'm not in good shape
the worst is that in my entourage who were in general very against the containment measures but respecting them all the same. no more conspicuous argument like: (children shouldn't have to pay for the old it's the future, the mental and economic health problems will be greater than the lives possibly lost etc ...) just really against what. and for the curfew there is really no one who is full to date, i have not seen a negative comment on the face or on the phone. i wonder if the portion that is full on social networks do so for good reasons.
restaurants can remain open
say that because my roommate actually
some grocery stores close at 7:30 p.m. (super c among others), but the subway in my town stays open until 7 p.m. for eating inside and 10 p.m. for doordash deliveries. same thing for mcdonald's, but open 24 hours for doordash and ... i don't know about drive-thru. employees receive a letter of permission to show with their badge to the police if necessary
used, it's cheap
i admit that would make sense!
used tesla s used to cost a lot less, with a year or two you'd have ~ 30-40 sometimes on kijiji before it got hot.
now that they sell cheaper xy models, the base price of the s has gone up and we no longer have the small battery versions, it's made at a real luxury tank price, no luck for the uber.
eating pierrot is a problem in itself. (well no, i don't really think so)
watch out for the man-bear-pig!
i'm going to tell you that, frankly, but i think that there were already a lot of people who were giving each other ski passes the night well before confinement
me it is the drop of too much. i have a 16 year old dog. i have been walking at night for years. i learned to like it. in addition, this rule worries me for individual freedoms. it remains a populist measure because the boomers who voted for mononc legeault say to themselves that it is my young people who go out to see their friends the problem. but in reality it is a measure that costs fuck all unlike taking concrete actions such as taking measures on aeration and filtration, imposing better mask formats, closing more schools and manufacturing environments, etc.
it gives the impression that they are doing something but in reality ...
not what i had understood at the press briefing ... so suddenly. can i order a pizza at 9 p.m. in a restaurant that already offered that on january 8?
$ 11,000 for a finished luxury tank that will cost your ass to repair ...
with the victory of the canadian yesterday, it is true that we feel in 1993!
it's pretty funny until you step outside and realize that it is indeed 93.
and what if god said:
boil
that's like when it says it's boastful to mascouche ..
go habs go !
wtf, it is not 25 in montreal ajd ...
"dress as you should remember your suit because otherwise there are people in the office who will tell you that there was no chicken ordered ha ha-ha-ha ha-ha-hahaha".
feels like 1993 boys!!
tabarnak c hot in criss
ok, but what does the castle look like (3x30) +3 degrees?
it is the feeling with mask!
here is! :)
25 for 25th stanley cup more.
yeah, i had to use my oven mitts to open the door. really painful.
the 94 smells better
too soon
too soon
we're not tuesday either;)
take my posivote!
interstellar radio, we take your space requests.
there is no coincidence here
worse the conspi will complain that it infringes their rights ...
it's like these fellow canadians are trying to communicate with us...
i do not know.
well the xd pq the title "this morning" ..... post 4 hours ago ... so ... wednesday.
fake news
you laugh, but there are those who believe that the ch run, it all arranged with legault to "put us to sleep while they force the vaccination and indoctrinate us".
madness. legault and bettman, c'tun racket !!!
lol wow! they live in their world ahha
they forgot to tell chris lee their plan
right there: [ marge(
that's why he wasn't here yesterday: p
imagine if they lose tonight .... those who have tickets to game # 4, paying $ 3500 to maybe see your team get swept up, are going to be stressed out in my opinion.
i have season tickets so i paid the "normal" price.
...
it sucks the same.
ostia that they played badly ...
there is a mallet who thought he was funny by making a sign that says "i'm missing the birth of my first child i hope it will be worth the price".
if she's not a flat joke, i feel sorry for her child.
yeah, well, it still takes a bit of a brush to buy a $ 35,000 ticket ...
my condolences.
it hurts my heart to see how they get destroyed, but at least these just low morale and not my bank account.
a rise to los angeles would be good. :(
[deleted]
in montreal, what are a few hours of value gain on a home?
at least, are there in the end.
[removed]
those who can afford to pay $ 3,500 for a ticket don't worry about a thing
$ 3,500? $ 35,000 you mean.
at least they will see the cut!
losing by scoring 3 goals
by the standards of a regular season game against a team that wouldn't be tbl, they really didn't play that bad. but it's a playoff game and it's tbl, so inevitably they scored on every error of the ch.
[deleted]
according to a friend who was directly behind him, it was just for the views ... it looked like he was just watching that, the number of views of a story he would have done 🤷
 i feel sorry for this child there too
35 000$ ??! st siboère
the ch team was of a different caliber in 1993, do yourself a lot by dreaming too hard, appreciate the fact that we reached the final at least.
he has
you can fall from a volcano
cool. fuck the anglos.
buddy, i fear that's some hardcore projection of your own self-hatred :/// not the best of look
in my opinion there is a gang that broke the little pig.
i know somewhat has payed his pcu
[deleted]
ouf, i guess lol
if you remove the 2 goals at the start of the 2nd which was very hard, you don't have the same game. "we're going to give a 2 against 0 then a 2 against a direct at the start of a period. kosse who could go wrong?"
you can make an observation and even a review without being better than someone has something, you know?
with your reasoning, i hope you're a programmer, otherwise what are you doing to comment on reddit?
honestly, some high school hockey players could play better, yeah.
this man is living a sad life.
it's clear that it's not easy to be the son of a legend.
don't worry, an appearance in the end is already good.
give it a chance, just before y'a replied to a post on why ye still virgin…. it makes you frustrated to keep her inside the same for so long ...
i guess they have a lot more to worry about than the outcome of a match!
poor little pig
there is at least 1 for real
in the harsh light of day i think i was pretty naive with my comment lol
programmer is a good start. however, did you just write this review without a language and communication diploma?
we all know the expression 'it's arranged with the view guy'
i don't know who the sight guy is, but he's a real pimp, so many people give themselves away for him.
at least he died before he saw the canadian get knocked out in 4.
die to go watch a regular season game :(
wow. the guy from “views” changes so much meaning with social media. spirit exploded.
i laughed, thank you
i can not understand that ... who will not want a microsoft 5g chip? / s
yourself.
subtle [reference to idiocracy] (
sign of the times, that's fine.
ya the long middle finger in esti
the face goes perfectly with hahaha bravo
damn it is true that will make a good publicity, this thread is hilarious moreover.
another good idea would be to have legault say something like let's-go vaccination
hahahahahahah
😂😂😂😂
no u.
who said that?
[deleted]
[removed]
i'm going to get vaccinated but to dehumanize the world because we don't trust the vaccine, it's just typical of the mild morons of quebec.
think like me or your a mongolian !!! reeeeeee!
what is the point of vaccinating the non-vulnerable if they can still transmit the virus?
at the price it costs 4g, i want 3 doses
pi in addition it is free. you might even have to buy yourself a cell at 800 $, you have it in your arm now!
you yourself
guilty! this is my favorite movie
it's in reference to the government's brain pub
to illustrate going way deep into your rectum when he says fuck you.
so that he can push them so far that they'll taste him.
already done; now you
this article has been shown that "scientists" do not really have any knowledge of immunology.
here are the supposedly "scientists" that another from r / quebec found: [source] ( )
isabelle picard, mother and biologist
richard gendron, father and anthropologist
perig gouanvic, father and medical translator, freelance writer
caroline martin, mother and holder of a master's degree in community health
pierre biron, ba, ms, md, honorary professor of medical pharmacology, university of montreal
it's as if a doctor came to give his opinion on how to build an airplane, not super believable at first glance. he might be right, but normally one shouldn't take his idea for granted.
an opinion is not a scientific fact, it is difficult to understand.
according to your logic fuck the anesthesia, because it has been working for almost millennia and we don't know how!
go back to school please
go back and hide
no .. literally think every real expert in the field and get vaccinated instead of putting so much weight on the objectively incorrect opinion of the mattantes on facebook and the fools who wears foil hats and a flag of trump as a cape.
it depends on your reasons.
the vaccine greatly decreases the transmission rate it's just not 100%.
sometimes i feel the heat through my oven mitts. i keep putting them on, telling myself it's useless, since it was a bit hot. i'm not burning it's screeching good already.
think about your question and answer it ..?
our health care system is falling apart. our emergencies are overflowing. here is the problem
preliminary studies show that the virus is 50% less transmitted by vaccinated people. in addition, even the non-vulnerable can get very sick and develop sequelae of the virus.
phew, what relentless logic!
your question is not up to you, my friend. anyone can be vulnerable to covid 19, some more than others, but it can affect you and the vaccine will not help you get sick or worse.
if you take the pfizer, the moderna and the astra-zeneca, you automatically have access to all the towers of bell, telus and rogers. for access to the videotron network, on the other hand, we will have to wait for the medicago vaccine.
this is why they started by getting us used to coughing in the elbow, it is to initiate voice recognition of the arm !!
me too
my username is a cross reference to "not sure" and the quebec homer simpson. because a trash quebecois version of idiocracy would have been a masterpiece.
isn't that a documentary?
me too ! i have it on dvd lol 🤣
strawman argument, typical.
and we should add to the problem by letting people catch covid when there is a vaccine?
imagine we would have taken the covid resources for the health system ...
imagine it wouldn't be the govermaman who looked after the hospitals ...
imagine no government ...
fuck, bandaged solid again
yes, for 40 years continuously, by design
did you read his question? healthy young people don't care
you just created a new movie buff fantasy for me
les bougons is the archetype of idiocracy!
i seem to have watched a documentary of the same name before. but he's referring to the movie.
.... no, to say very clearly that the experts know more about it than conspiracy nuts is not a strawman argument, dumbass.
healthy young people still benefit from immune protection against the symptoms. even though they are less at risk of severe symptoms, there is still a risk
also, vaccinated (immune) people can still transmit the virus - yes - but have a much lower probability of doing so.
it's a question of numbers. the more people who are vaccinated the harder it is for the virus to spread
the bougons family are a hundred times more creative and intelligent than anyone in idiocracy.
why did i read the comments? so much hatred for quebec and quebecers.
lol, the comments in this thread where racist canadians are trying to act like victims of wicked quebecers. ridiculous
oops i read the comments.
above all, do not read the comments ... 🙄
[deleted]
le roc: quebeckers are racists.
also the roc: quebeckers belong to an underclass of canadians and no one likes them.
(used google translate so it's probably not correct) i'm the person who posted it first (where you posted it from) and i'm honestly honored
i am not francophone. my family is an immigrant. after having read hundreds of comments similar to what i see every time there is a mention of quebec somewhere on reddit i can say: fuck canadians, they are racists of mard.
what a shitshow, i lost my brain cells while reading the comments.
i advise you to refer the original post and the comments of / r / fuckyouinparticular to the admins of reddit. they say not to tolerate hate speech faque must stop being submissive and will flood them with legitimate postponement. it is completely unacceptable.
btw i say carry over the original post to bring the whole thread to attention. the image is okay, it's the comments that are not.
- the most beautiful women are french!
- ... still french!
- [yeah, you won't even know what to do with a french woman!] (
it's still true that quebecers are addicted to tattoos. i don't have any and in almost all the bands i find myself in i'm the only one who doesn't.
personally, i'm starting to doubt that this image is even a legitimate thing that has existed at some point; i wentogle for combinations of "health canada" and the tagline and stuff, and had no results other than shit like ifunny.co. (i wanted to know us the date or that this way of thinking was common ..)
conclusion: you are all fanning the flames of our perpetual racial war or whatever against the roc, all because of a stupid picture describing a "life advice" that may or may not have existed.
and chicks with tats are fucking awesome, plus sometimes they  know even crazier chicks with tats, and don't believe the lies: sticking your dick in crazy is an amazing experience that must be experienced at least once.
i would not say that all the comments are unfounded, but there is still fucking filthy to read. the esti d'anglos will tooooooujours return to the referendum worse on the flq worse on how we would not survive as a country blah blah, blah blah.
can you imagine how it would be better just a chalice of canada which respects itself between franco and anglo?
edit: holy shit being in nunavut it took 20 min to load faque i just read the comments and wtf the post is garbage.
fuck the comments in the other thread.
what is "fuck" in quebec?
something systemic
stu a real poster from a long time ago or something to just create lol.
lol ah yes i'm sure that health canada uses language like "don't let her touch your noodle"
it is clearly fake
/r/advertisementposters
i'm sorry everyone, i dont speak much french. is this a real sign from a few decades ago or just a joke. i wouldn't be surprised either way.
the english have always been jealous of the french. this country is not mine.
lmao
the police against * quebecois * 🗿
i resonate emotionally with it.
thank you sir.
based
why op says quebec ? it’s written in english haha
i read the comments.
i dont know where this from but it's hilarious.
that’s funny af
i'm not a racist, it's the other!
well yes you ......
in life, i try to take care of my health, not to eat too much fat / sweet, no cigarettes, i prefer to walk than to take the chariot ... i regret in tabarnak because after reading the comments on the other thread, i just caught the cancer anyways.
quebec or america lol
my mother warned me about quebec women
😂🏆👌
some are measured, but there is a good part of them who are almost hateful towards quebec. it's sad.
it freaks me out how there are people who motivate them to hate quebec. always a dude who writes a thesis with pi articles all about why everyone should hate us, no matter what.
what comments are you talking about here?
it's not new, i've seen this weed for years on the internet, there are times that i ventured into dark corners, and sometimes it just came to attack me like that
congratulations my guy / my daughter, for answering pi even sent shit, many thick in the other post.
it takes energy or patience to do that.
it quickly becomes exhausting to wade through ignorance ...
worse, i caught cancer from the seed
this one in particular
it's flat because the image itself is really funny.
most are ironic
courage comrade, the kebak is behind you
there was a white canadian who spoke to me about "racist" quebec and i told him "i, from a visible minority, i assure you that i suffered less racism in quebec than in english canada "
it is clear that racism exists in quebec, ** as elsewhere **, but what annoys me more than racism is the hypocrisy and moral superiority which should not even exist when you leave.
hey man, thanks for actually taking the time to translate, we appreciate it.
deepl > google translate
thanks to you for your contribution to the separatist movement. there's a lot of hateful comments on your publication that will just make people want to gtfo as quickly as possible from that hypocritical federation called canada.
man, did you see how you write? you might not be "native", you are french-speaking and quebecois, there's no doubt about that!
pu capable of announcements of an upcoming announcement… politicians should learn to say what they have to say or shut their mouths…
it's to allow us to imagine the worst so that then we do "haaaa well, it's not so bad after all"
i have a sure source that there will be a vaccination passport, not having it will prevent you from accessing public places without a mask.
it's to push the world to get vaccinated.
but seriously, get vaccinated, it takes 30 min.
well the sub will become unlivable again
according to his message on twitter, he seems to foreshadow the vaccination passport? an article in la presse this morning seemed to tend towards this measure as well. the minister of health had also announced it a few weeks ago.
for real, you still haven't figured that out after 16 months?
negative: there will be an announcement.
positive: the announcement will be positive! more details that day.
and they say something like "worrying about the rise in variant cases, we're going to announce something."
i'm starting to hate him so much. it's better to be fair to the unvaccinated. if it is still a confinement and a no-the-right-to-see-oneself i will not survive this shot ...
he will announce that they are closing the delta in montreal.
[with reference to this post] (
[miradooooooor!](
little pig, little pig! i want to enter, i want to enter!
vaccination passport (1/2 doses) without confinement> confinement.
i propose to require the passport first in grocery stores, convenience stores and pharmacies (/ s in case).
my bet and hope: they will isolate the contagion zones and impose the vaccination passport there. the rest of the qc will go on with their lives.
oh yeah so him too? macron and legault are surely friends.
i agree with you that it's unpleasant.
on the other hand, when it is significant, it is necessary to "warn" the population in advance. otherwise it's too abrupt.
these three steps must be done with several days of space between them:
1. announcement of the advertisement
2. announcement of measures
3. implementation of measures
it is a change management 101 strategy. for the majority of people it helps to withstand the shock, the time to get used to the idea. i think it's a good strategy.
even if individually i share your opinion, must not forget that there are 8.5 million people in the boat, it does not turn on a 10 cents ...
at that point, i think it amuses him.
the worst is the ostis of settlements for an advertisement. do i need a two week countdown to know that you are going to launch a new graphics card? fucking no.
or well to have ideas of the populace ...
worse to have a little feedback and to adjust.
big so true
> public places without mask
disappointed, i would have preferred "to public places" period. but hey, now the mask will be seen as a cone of shame around a dog, a big flag indicating which ones are victims of covidiotie ...
not even 30 minutes. you go to a place in a chariot, it takes about 17 minutes.
2 minutes for the gnagna and 15 minutes to wait in your tank.
the only meeting i managed to have is in terrebonne instead of laval so it will take me at least 1 hour of tank and i don't even know if i will not have to turn around because they are trying to pass me another vaccine.
but seriously remove the state of emergency it takes 30 min, and it is completely unjustified.
it is literally a crime, a clear-cut abuse of power.
fuck legault and all his cheerleaders.
post a cat or car plate.
my life will become unlivable again if he forbids us to see each other again, the sub will be the least of my worries
unfortunately, it has started and it promises to be worse than last winter.
quebec is going to become unlivable again, you mean.
the beautiful fabrication of consent that
it's going to be fun for the world who have non-vaccinated children ...
those who hold a personal grudge against legault are the same people who talk nonsense to an actor they meet at the grocery store because he played a bad guy on tv.
i use the vegetarian on the north pole daily in front of a snowman carrot in my analogies
thank you for making me discover this little jewel
well, they're going to see zazza at the olympia in paris together. as a result.
agree that there needs to be a delay between stage 2 and 3 for the population and the companies concerned to be able to prepare for the measures.
but between stage 1 and 2, it's just fueling speculation, rumors and leaks, and no one can actually prepare for what's to come until it's official.
at the start of the pandemic, my mother-in-law had a stroke.
she was hospitalized a 45-minute drive from our home.
i called to see if we could go see her. i was told that being in intensive care, we could.
we left. the roads being empty, we took only 38 minutes.
render on site "sorry sir, we are now closed"
"but i called like 40 minutes ago!"
"yes, the decision was made 15 minutes ago"
"and is it effective immediately? even though i called before?"
oh yes.
they did the same to us to go to his apartment to get him his glasses and do some cleaning.
we called ahead, and during our trip, the rules were put in place.
it is also above all to allow time for the info to flow, so that it is a shock for anyone less informed.
faque in the background, this is a good idea
huge so factual
didn't have an rv after your first one?
we are not "in a state of emergency" but quite agree that we could return to normal. but there is still a gang which does not get vaccinated * and * who complain about the measures pi ca cest moron en criss.
... it's to have people other than nurses to do the vaccination.
it is to have free rein for medical personnel and vaccination. it doesn't look too much like a crime scene.
don't waste your time, people here don't understand what fundamental rights are, they think that going freely in public places is a privilege. they also think that if you don't get vaccinated for covid you are anti-vaccine, you are a fool and you are a danger to society. polls show that the majority of quebecers agree with the government's draconian draconian measures. they are the majority, think about it ... one option is to leave the country, i have a friend who did and i am preparing for it myself, i will not be here when people go to remember or learn why basic human rights were established.
i think that at the level where we are, it will even take a car plate that talks about a cat
do like most people and go see your friends and family the same if you are vaccinated
it is for his vaccination passport. allow the vaccinated to continue to live a little.
rip
unemployed pudding >>> everything
i refuse to elaborate, make do with it.
i feel personally targeted by this publication.
i love the fruit cake, i make it every year; it is a demanding job requiring a sprinkling of alcohol every week for 3 months!
please enjoy the fruit cake!
[deleted]
i didn't dare to taste the fruit cake for a really long time because of its bad reputation (in any case, in my entourage), worse misery, it's good! but i don't know much about it, and when i see it at the grocery store i always wonder if it's the "right" kind, feck i rarely eat it.
devil's filth that, fruit cakes as well. it tastes of disappointment.
huh seriously? don't you like it? it's screeching good! i thought that at worst people were indifferent ... oh well
fruit cakes ... reminds me of when i was a teenager and my parents bought them.
"you eat everything, you don't touch fruit cake !! light stu ??"
non-ironically imagine that someone else would like it.
well, store bought fruit cakes are definitely crap. but my grandmother makes a decadent fruit cake every year. let's say it's more of a big pile of candied fruits and nuts that we don't really know how they can hold together ...
hey fruit cake is labor and love ticking when it's homemade. it takes weeks to do it right! if your grandmother made you one, it's because he loves you very much.
courtesy of the optimist club.
your unclear pieces of orange squares and the candied green cherries; thanks but no thanks.
this is the cake that has been used for every christmas for 3 generations ...
it is fresh deg, weird hien but makes it age and it becomes a delight, trust.
it's because you haven't tasted mine. it's a kind of orgy of butter and brandy (rum is too sweet) with a little flour and fruit!
but oh boy it takes bowls for the mix dry, wet, wet, etc etc.
this is the catfish of the cakes.
hmm the british culinary heritage * chef's kiss *
we're pretty sure it's a good fruit cake if (1) it's almost exactly the shape of a brick and (2) it weighs a brick.
the fruit cake is homemade at the beginning of november, once cooled rolled up in a good half a centimeter of cotton cheese, is (generously) sprinkled with rum twice a week ... and taken out to a party or party. host is tanned in criss and wants to put everyone to bed ....
a centimeter slice has the volume of alcohol about 15 shots ... so anyone who was close to throwing up rushed in, only to fall asleep on the bathroom floor, and the other mononc / matantes who were nearby either fall asleep on their chairs or will just spit on the sofa or the carpet in the living room ....
fruit cake is not a dessert, it is a defense system.
"yeah, there's maple in it"
fruit, good. cake, great.
fruit cake, nasty crap.
the banana bread on the other hand is fantastic
it's the same debate as with cilantro
if you knew the sugar in there haha
i hate it so much that i composed a haiku in honor of my hatred of the fruit cake
when your parents called you picky when you were young: remember that is the tuesday they eat. being picky is a compliment to me if that means not liking fruit cake.
every year, i buy two fruit cakes from costco. it is a must
fruit cakes with marzipan on top mioum mioum mioum
the fruit cake is delicious.
i don't know if it's a fruit cake, but i buy a panetone every year. too good.
well, too bad for you, give it to me, your fruit cake, i like it.
there are two schools for the feast of kings: either a mustard cake with candied fruits of mustard, or a delicious frangipane pancake.
the first is from the native region, and i am ashamed.
the news in memes
grandparents to my girlfriend make it a really good one with ... fruit salad in cane. i swear it is delicious and i stuff it down every christmas.
i just checked out because i wasn't sure if they're all made with fruit salad, but i think that's the ricardo recipe they make. i really advise you to try it at least once.
eurk, it's not edible! 😆
wow
i work in a grocery store.
these cakes were released for two months and the same batch was released again.
that explains pt pk there are deg lol
hahhahaha oh my god so glad to know that i'm not alone!
try the small, compact, chewy claxton fruit cake! almost no dough, just fruits and nuts. top with a homemade rum sauce and die.
me seriously i find its not so bad
i like that...
i bought one made by the monks of the val notre-dame abbey in saint-jean-de-matha and it is really excellent. i sprinkle it with calvados while waiting to eat it.
people who like it… omg.
traits.equip_trait trait_hidden_likes_fruitcake 
a secret sims 4 cheat that makes your sim love fruit cake and it makes them happy. apparently the dev team was deeply divided over the fruit cake issue so if you don't use that your sim may either hate or love the stuff. no middle: d
i do mine, it's 100 times better and a lot cheaper. you just have to take a step ahead.
the queen and the fruit cake: the two true symbols of english canada.
this and the fruit salads
why elaborate ??? it is an undeniable fact
suicide cake (chocolate jusssss)
queen elizabeth cake also deserves a mention
we say a pudding temporarily assisted by employment insurance benefits
very beautiful photo
where on the 132
route 132 at home is a lot less beautiful.
it's cool, there are no winters in gaspésie lol
i seem to be able to go around the gaspésie by motorbike right there.
a stretch of road for big rollers, but it's so beautiful.
going up to kegaska does not offer exactly so many beautiful views ... at least, you have to look for them a little more, they do not jump in your eyes as much.
in my [version] ( we do not see the 132 ...
jai perdue ma virginiter a se fare 🤣🤘💕💕💕
it takes more road signs.
it's beautiful wow!
my roots are in haute-gaspésie, i posivote vigorously
crazy that this route passes right in front of my town (brossard)... i owe it to myself to go to gaspe once in my life. j'ai trop de régions à découvrir.
not badly cuter than the 132 in longueuil
on a motorcycle it must be disgusting to do.
the edge of the highway has more corpses than that big street there
it's in my bottle, that!
thank you, it's just below the martre lighthouse
for having gone for the first time this summer, i would say it is the overhanging lighthouse of la martre, to be confirmed.
[deleted]
[here.] (
i was thinking the same thing lol
saint-constant/ste-cath/delson lol
i was thinking the same! i am in saint constant.
it's been a few months hahah
i too would have thought that there would be more snow there ...
little summer roadtrip there with stops at microbreweries, sign me up now
i lost neurons while reading this comment
it was worth the drive even from toronto!
thank you
[it is the lighthouse of la martre which is very photogenic! photo of me in wikipedia!] (
yeah, that's probably the worst stretch of the whole road. strongly its redevelopment.
welcome to the roussillon gang
hi neighbor!
what do you have against * being done *?
do not go see his profile and his history, you will lose even more lol
thank you!!!
health!!!
having more testimony like yours would surely help people understand. thank you. quick recovery to you.
beautiful testimony. where i find it disheartening is the guy who had the symptoms and went to work anyway. it's not strong. there you put at risk people who did not choose it, vs those who decided to go to dinner.
it is really devious. my wife got it and we found out when she * stroké * sua job was 36 years old.
asymptomatic all the way. me according to the serological test i never had it.
a can not say that my household is not one point.
you had to isolate yourself on the 2 floors of the house.
i had made a negative pressure airlock with a fan and jfesait the laundry with a n95 lol. (worse the food)
it was ordinary in tabarnak like 2 weeks.
permanent neurological sequelae.
the sqdc is omnipresent in this year of thank god.
#2020
sad, but as you explain, it's not just a rule that was broken there, it's a lot more.
gatherings in big groups, badly worn masks, chatting at the bakery, traveling, working with symptoms ...
it's much more serious than allowing yourself a gathering at 4 for christmas. but given that the government chose to wean at the worst time, well we end up with all this civil disobedience.
yes yes it's all well and good all that but my christmas t'sé / s
more seriously i hope that you and your family will get by without too many problems in the long term.
[deleted]
every sunday evening in the family on my father's side we have a zoom call where there are about ten of us to chat. it lasts 30-60m and we started in april.
yesterday my aunt, in her late fifties, no comorbidities, in good physical shape, showed up 10m late. last weekend she seemed to be sick, she went for a covid test on monday: positive.
she who sent me a mask in the mail. who was very careful, because she had to go see her husband who has been in a physical rehabilitation center in st-hyacinthe (she has been in longueuil) for 2 months. y was supposed to come home this week ...
she stayed on the call for 10m and then left. exhausted. burnt.
it is so unfair. she who took every conceivable precaution, she pokes him, and during that time you have a lot of anti-mask / anti-measure tapons that party at the rosemère center and which either doesn't poke it or pogne a version that gives them so few symptoms ...
doesn't smell well, has a fever but still goes to work? cibole!
get tested, but think you are immunized following this test and participate in a rally? sacrament ginette!
i knew what to say, quickly the vaccine for idiots, does it exist?
thank you for the testimony, it really puts things in perspective.
on a smaller scale, we had a roughly similar story in my family. covid spreads like wildfire if people aren't careful. my mother almost died of it.
good luck.
> he works with my father in their grocery store and still decides to report to work on monday, thinking he has a little flu.
i want to be mean, but i'm a big moron.
it's been 150 times that we say that if you have the slightest symptoms, you contact info-santé pi you stay at home.
if you walk out of your house while showing symptoms of covid you're a fool.
just a question. if it's been years since i've seen anyone as i work all the time the last year has been even more difficult as my choices to change my life myself have been put on hold by the government without knowing when they will will come back? do i have the right to end it because i have nothing that holds me back and no chance of being able to remedy it since it is stopped by the government?
thank you for your testimony. hope you and your family are doing well now.
as you mentioned in your post, it's mind-boggling how quickly it spreads, especially through believing that we are the exception to the rule. i also hear too many cases of people who have been in contact with someone with symptoms and continue to live their lives as if nothing was said, "well i'm waiting for the results of x before i get tested." it is infuriating!
do not forget asymptomatic cases. my uncle died of covid-19 in november at the age of 77. my aunt, who is 74, also tested positive and had no symptoms. the two, however, had a comorbidity. a 34-year-old friend who has no health problems tested positive three weeks ago. he is barely recovering from it and his sense of smell has still not returned.
my grandmother passed away on november 29th. as a family we decided that we were going to get together and do a little something once the pandemic "is over" where it will be safe for older people.
really good testifies!
unfortunately, people who should read it will either not read it or say it is a fear campaign ...
i wish you a speedy recovery to you and your family
had they isolated themselves before seeing each other? how long?
it's weird, because i have nevertheless been forced to work since march, without interruption, in person and to travel in several regions of quebec. in comparison, a dinner for 4 seems very small to me, considering that i meet dozens of people a day.
i understand the principle, i'm not that cheap, but it's hard to see a dinner at 4 as a big danger compared to every day of work.
the covidiots do not understand that the critical mass is really lower than they think
"only 1% of the population is infected"
they say without realizing that the transmission is exponential, and that the difference over several weeks between 1% and 2% is huge
prevention by onion peels (or slice of swiss cheese).
if a measure fails or is not applied (the virus goes through the hole of a slice), the other measures will be able to compensate. no measure is 100% perfect, it is the set of measures that is effective and serves as a safety net. if a ton of measures is not followed, boom like the op family unfortunately.
don't play idiots. respect the rules, they are simple anyway.
before the pandemic i was already not going to work when i had a fever for fear of infecting someone with the flu since i am in customer service. in times of pandemic it is just appallingly stupid.
i really wonder if it's always been like this when there were issues of this magnitude? like "back in the days", were there any people who were literally in another reality at this point?
is social media a problem? should you do censorship or just "get through it" and hope that future generations will be less cave?
it's so sad. quick recovery to your family.
if the damned covid could cause some victims .. shouldn't be people who are careful .... please covid listen to me .. will take care of covidiots like the trudels and the cellars who pass false messages and encourage the world has disobedience.
3.4 deaths of their spokespersons would perhaps calm them down a little.
let's say it's not bad exactly for its public health freak out.
in my family it's not same, but the family has my blonde yen a bcp who still have mega family parties (in times of non-covid).
like ah on the 24th we're at the tremblay's (50 crammed in a basement) and somewhere like the 27th we're going to the lafontaine party (50 other people crammed into another basement) ... oh and also everyone world is kissing just be safe.
it doesn't take a big math class to see the explosion of cases coming.
just like that, what do you think of families whose members are all able to isolate themselves for two weeks before and after christmas, and who decide to spend the evening together anyway?
phew, you were really, really not lucky there with this statistically unusually high number of hospitalizations / intensive care / near death!
take care !
i totally understand. my girlfriend's aunt and her aunt's children died at the start of the pandemic. 45, 12 and 10 years old.
i hope your mom and your family will be okay with it. it's sad to see people behaving like this :(
it is sure that if there is not at least a week of voluntary isolation by everyone who wants to meet, it does not work ...
for noel, if we are able to control all the variables and go into voluntary isolation, that should be okay, right?
i know that in big families you can't control all the variables - but in small families where everyone works at home, shouldn't the week of isolation be enough?
they probably don't have much time before the vaccine anyway.
so fake ...
yeah, it looks like your story is fake 🤔
/s
beautiful story / s
like the 5,000 bots that just went offline.
[
very true. thank you, share terrebonne !!! 11! one !! one !!! 1!
not
honestly, i don't think so.
at a certain point. it is willful ignorance.
nop, i spend my christmas with the family it's tradition it's impossible i miss it / s for me, but very serious for too many people.
they will say it's made up.
i hope my testimony will help others realize that the virus exists. thank you so much.
this is sort of what happens when there are no economic measures to support these people. there are a lot of people who can't do without a week or two of pay so they take a "chance". it would take an incentive that covers lost wages if you have to go into segregation.
i know, to respond to the other comments, the grocery store and my dad and my aunt's husband and this one retired so he's getting retirement money and considering he's 50/50 in business, he also receives money. so nothing forced him to go to work, he is a man who loves to work and does not like to stay bedridden despite having a lot of health problems, but he still had to stay at home and not conclude that it's flu without getting tested.
[deleted]
i'm really sorry your wife has been there. unfortunately, many people have also had covid-related strokes, even without having small symptoms and who are young without any comorbidities. i was in the hospital yesterday for an x-ray and blood tests because even after 15 days i still have a little fever that will not go away. there was a patient in her thirties also who was pregnant but had almost no belly who had covid, she was told that she had a pulmonary embolism which they had to confirm with another test but the taking of blood and ct scan showed a puffy and she could lose her baby .. it's sad. i hope your wife is doing better and that 2021 will be a year that will make us forget this year of late.
it's true! when you look at his thing, the world is the worst, it's not just because of a rally, it's all around that created such a bad situation. wear your masks correctly, respect social distancing and get tested. it will be better as well
the problem is, people don't respect anything. even if the government would have allowed the fair gathering of 4 people, we all know there will be more. anyway i know lots of them on fb said they'll do the same. after that, it will cry that we are talking about an increase and the covidiots will again put the blame on the government.
this sub is really starting to be divided in two ... today i see you saying that with a lot of posivotes and it reminds me of the post when legault announced that christmas was canceled ...
all comments were against the idea. "the outbreaks are elsewhere" "i have been in quarantine for months, i will go and see my family as well"
bayenne, it is sure that the outbreaks are elsewhere, no one makes gatherings, if we all gather, the outbreaks will come from there!
but my christmas !!!! 1! 1
thank you very much. for the moment it is correct but i have a small fever even after 15 days ... this virus is strange.
> in the end, it risks being the vaccine that will save us and not government restrictions.
we have known that from the start. government restrictions are not here to save us. they are there to reduce the damage between now and the vaccine.
again, people should be reminded that the vaccine does not * cure * covid ...
i'm sorry she's passing by! yes that's unfair, i have facebook friends who are covidots and nab it with little effect and now share posts that encourage family dinners.
a detail without consequence at the bottom of the remarks but important to underline: the acadians were not “french canadians”, they were acadians. the distinction is important because erasing their distinct identity today by equating them with "french canadians" (in the sense of the word at the time) is in the same vein as the british attempt to erase their identity from france. the time.
i pay a poutine to the one who posts this on r / canada
** you live in unceded acadian territory **
i tried to put on r / canada they did not accept lol
the most amazing thing is that the city named after it is the largest "french-speaking" city in new brunswick ... and the brayons don't give a damn.
"it's just a name, it's the past" they say.
i can't understand their battered wife syndrome. and i'm from new brunswick!
"deported" you mean that they where put on a ship and the british sank the ship.
>[babarleroi22]( [1 hour ago](  
post this on [r/canada]( and it will be fun times
...
>[elli933]( you egg?**  [1 hour ago](  
[r/canada]( ban speedrun any%
hahahahahahahaha !!!! asti that i laughed!
let's not forget lord durham's bullshit!
in the royal bank building on st jacques street in montreal there are two major plaques for all those employees who died in the 1st world war. not one french man on the list. they preferred to import people from the uk. that's what les canadiens francais had to put up with for years and years.
until the 80’s the french canadians were in the low class of the social structure.
it was not the canadians but rather the british who deported the acadians.
you would be surprised to learn that the word "canadian" was popular in quebec at the time, where the "french canadian" comes from.
and you haven't even heard what happened to the first nations yet.
ah these anglos ...
the british were not canadians, just like the acadians.
french *fucking* frogs
if i can play the devil's advocate, technically, it was england that deported the acadians.
but i laughed out loud anyway :)
i do not understand. i do not speak french
oh yes the famous / r / quebec threads that we bash the english because they do quebec bashing.
a beautiful show of hypocrite here. don't let go of the gang.
i know it is from another sub but i am more able with the use of the word "racisme !!!!!!! when we talk about discrimination against francophones. find another analogy.
the acadian deportation was not cool. but i think it was less of a race issue and more of an economic and class (along with language) issue. i guess it's the difference between the british government allowing the french canadians in quebec to keep their religion and language, while condemning (ou even imprison) first nations people from actually practicing or showing their culture. it is not that french canadians have never experienced discrimination, but that they have not experienced the racism that colored minorities have experienced. like police profiling for example. in my opinion, the comparison cannot be made.
there is nobody serious who says thick blanket statements the same.
that's not really racisme, the countries were just at war.
there is no one who says that there has never been racism against french canadians ...
[deleted]
> a detail without consequence at the bottom of the remarks but important to underline: the acadians were not “french canadians”, they were acadians.
this is quite correct, and in my case i avoid calling the acadians french canadians, but in canada today, and especially in the mouths of anglophones, a "canadian french" (or "* french canadian * ”) it simply means a canadian citizen (probably non-immigrant) who speaks french as his mother tongue or who identifies with a traditionally french-speaking community. which includes the acadians. yes, the term french canadian is really very imprecise, and that's why some people prefer other terms like québécois, canadien, or laurentien, but all of these terms also have different meanings (or are little known) and are also problematic. to be used to denote the ethnic group in question.
> "french canadians" (in the sense of the word at the time)
no french-canadian existed at the time.
and it is on this simple sentence that your demonstration loses all its relevance because the french-canadian term appeared in the second half of the twentieth century, when the english appropriated the term canadian which at the time designated all those which spoke french at the time and which covered more than the current territory of canada. this is why the canadian hockey club is called like that, because it was the only one of the 6 clubs to have the right to have canadians (read person speaking french in north america) in its ranks.
don't try to rewrite history. there was never a french canadian before 1945 and even there! my grandparents said they were canadians and spoke canadian, the invention of the word québécois to designate those who speak french in canada dates from the 1960s and mainly from tremblay's novels.
yes, you are ignorant of the history of canada.
i understand that they are distinguished from other french canadians, but are they not of french origin from french settlers?
sorry, but for me acadians are part of the french canadian family.
puah that's a stretch
the acadians were not simply canadians. however, today the term "french canadian" is a general designation for all descendants of the inhabitants of the french colonies, canadians and acadians. when we really try to distinguish them, we rather use "québécois" and "acadiens" these days.
the acadians were and still are french speaking canadians (now a creole or a pidgin due to assimilation, which awaits all french canadians)
to deny them their french origins is very racist.
> a detail without consequence at the bottom of the remarks but important to underline: the acadians were not “french canadians”, they were acadians.
you get mixed up in your dates. there is a little over a century between the deportation of the acadians and the abandonment of french-canadian membership.
at the time there were no french canadians there were canadians versus the english until the end of world war ii.
addition: which proves your ignorance of the history of canada, even recent.
go ahead and do it
ten owe a side dude (banished?) there!
i am already banned :(
i want poutineeeeeeee !!!
well it was given up, precisely.
let's say that the day the name of the places becomes our most pressing problem, we will be well settled.
there is no one who will defend the name. but we have higher stakes.
and if we need to change the name, let's start by setting an example ourselves: let's rename our own university, the université de moncton. then we can think of going to protest.
it must have been difficult for you to be deported 😔
and / or gathered in churches to be burned. a classic.
chalice ... it didn't take long.
[
so anything that was done before 1867 in present-day canada can wash its hands of it?
by canadian he clearly meant canadian in the modern sense of the term, ie "english-canadians". why would he have used a meaning that has fallen into disuse?
do you think this grandma was written in the 19th century perhaps?
as the russians are not responsible for the atrocities committed by the soviet union?
it is not because there are 2 sides to a story that the 2 are equivalent. it's trump-style 'enlightened centrism' that will say that there are bad guys from all walks of life after charlottesville.
at that point, we should also stop using the term when talking about bill 21.
deal?
wow :
1) what are you talking about?
2) how smooth are you writing?
listen, even the british later in the century admitted that was immoral.
roc has entered the chat
what did you think the anglos were saying in their defense of this racism?
`` well no i'm not racist i have frog friends ''
nobody nobody?
can i take a walk with my trash after 8am? -timé
[deleted]
even he had questions for smokers and she said no right.
seriously, a smoker in front of his apartment or condo, if he gets a ticket, the policeman really has to be zealous.
it's not the same if you take a walk to smoke that i agree.
it is good even if that's not how it works!
[deleted]
i have a garbage bag on the stairs waiting for its release at 8:15 p.m.
edit: i pushed the audacity to smoke a j before my food delivery man arrived and a clop / chat with him, in front of our house, sweet jesus
so, don't we use to be using going out in past tense?
evenings and nights of recycling and garbage cans there are always people who come by to pick up cans and the still good things they find.
it is forbidden to drop them off at the road before 7 p.m. in montreal.
$ 6,000 is 120,000 cans
fuck recycling and fuck the poor it looks!
garbage cans can be taken out from 7 p.m. the day before in montreal.
tss ... you see bin that's all thinking that, sti.
caapubonsens
excellent haha!
these two [fit too well] ( with the animation frames from mario 1
just saw global news covering this stupidity.
its like watching the americans...pass the popcorn!
is there anyone else who read "camel toe" by chance?
it's not garbage, it's garbage! this is not the same. hey baptism of baptism!
would make a good government ad!
yes but just within 1km of your home
i don't know about you, but to put my trash in the street i have to cross a sidewalk, which is not really my property
qqn asked geneviève guilbault this week if it was allowed to be on her land after 8 p.m. and she hesitated and said that she would get back to us on that. has this been confirmed?
indeed, it still made me laugh.
try to live in an apartment or condo to see.
i am not allowed to take them out before 7 p.m. (municipal by-law, $ 500 fine) and i have to put them on the sidewalk - oh surprise i now have to put them beyond the new highway by bike in the middle of the street? or across the street? i do not understand too much yet, no one explains it clearly, but it is on the public highway.
it gives me a window of one hour per week to take out the garbage, a different one for recycling and a third for compost.
we will hope that a police officer does not want to do his quota on my back and show "judgment". do you know finally i think that i will have to keep my garbage in my kitchen for the next 4 months, yes, long live public health! quebec model!
i'm absolutely not the type who rebels against the government, and i'm not a smoker either, but it almost tastes like burning cigarettes inside my non-smoking apartment at night in protest. i am convinced that some will do it for real.
this is big nonsense. you are not allowed to move around, you have to stay right in front of the door, near the others who also go out to smoke. very logical.
i have just received a message from the government, you probably too, which says that from 8 am, we cannot leave our land. therefore, a smoker can smoke outside his home, as long as he remains safe on his property.
kobeeeeeeeee
auxiliary have: she took out the trash.
auxiliary being: she left with the trash cans.
or in the morning. in the city center, when i lived there, i think you had to take out the trash between 10 p.m. and 9 a.m. and in verdun it is between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. i prefer the morning anyway because there are a lot of squirrels who like to tear up bags and poke around in bins if they have hours to get started.
moment!
[deleted]
on the government website:
"as of saturday january 9, a curfew will now be in effect. between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m., anyone will be prohibited from being outside their place of residence ** or its grounds ** , except in the case of exceptions. "
i could not believe it when i saw that end ... to date i was still +/- in agreement with all the measures, but there i really felt in the shoes of a conspirator who complains that 'they steal our freedoms for fun. the fact that they say it like it's trivial, ridiculous. not that it makes more sense scientifically speaking not to have the right to walk, but hey ...
the fact that she hesitated says a lot first about the madness in which we then fell on the level of arbitrary and amateur improvisation of this government which crossed the line.
[deleted]
[deleted]
when is there the crowd to go and smoke everyone in front of their apartment?
anyway, are you ready to piss off your neighbors to give the government a message? wtf?
yes it's more for those who live in apartments or condos who went to smoke in front of the sidewalk.
personally, i quit smoking, it was more of a reflection that i was trying to do.
ah i see, thank you. :)
it's really not everyone who has a driveway in montreal and even the condos with driveways that i have seen, the standard is always to put the garbage on the sidewalk, like 5 inches from the street . at least in all the neighborhoods i have lived in.
there is a small alley next to the neighboring block with the garbage bins!
technically, the public road is wider than the sidewalk in most places (dude who has studied land surveying and who makes plans with cadastres)
montreal and probably a good part of quebec city is often tighter due to the initial layout, but often you can deduce it approx if there is a tree line (not those in the sidewalk obviously) and post all at the same distance from the street. so the majority of the time you put your waste on the territory of the city.
esti, a chance
you just have to pray that the policeman who will come and hit you like a pinata, will interpret well or have been well informed in relation to this "update" there lol
completely agree with you, i had the same reaction. imagine having a detached garage or a shed and not having the right to go there. absurd. it was an easy answer and his hesitation made no sense.
australia and new zealand curfew at the start of the pandemic. people have had no choice but to comply. see their freedom if they have it now?
ah yes, the populace listened and now they can enjoy it.
but i completely agree with you that the government does not really know where to look. it smacks of improvisation with political capital and too much to let go of big companies because '' the economy ''
there are often none in the converts and even less in the small buildings
> say you have asthma
my doctor literally told me that i am developing asthma because i have been spending too much time in my apartment lately.
it's worse for my loss of cardio and weight gain and increase in blood pressure because the gyms are closed, i really feel the great public health of quebec coming into me, and i'm on my way to becoming a person at risk of complications from covid . marvellous. thank you arruda and legault
those who discovered covid-related hypochondria while listening to tva last spring have never even taken their vital signs or been healthy.
when you are no longer allowed to take a walk while smoking, you live in a big apartment building, and everyone is at home.
non-smoking apartment buildings or condos. there are plenty of them in my corner, there are always smokers who stink the neighborhood in front of the main entrances.
i'm more capable of lame comparisons.
they are islands. their borders are closed.
there are 200 countries in the world, take a look at the others.
worse, we will never make covid go away with anything other than mass immunity. richard martineau is not a scientist so stop quoting him.
[deleted]
basically, why did we lose? money and technical equipment
carey price and violette beauregard
aaah that's where they hid the lightning salary cap!
big gum chewing girl vibes in charlie and the chocolate factory
i wonder how it would have ended if the referee had called the penalty that gourde deserved for his dirty dog stroke.
the haters will say that this fake
woah there, it's obvious that you have shrunk price! there are still damn limits, frankly!
next series we will put a sumo in the net with us!
ken dryden wrote an article about the “big goalie” phenomenon: 
exactly..terrible
😂
take my upvote!
money and technical equipment
haha! can we see him in its goal?
he would need an inflatable sumo costume under his gear, that would close the gap between the two.
vasilevsky this is the next lil pump
no need for equipment, just to put someone like emanuel yarbrough in the net.
where are the nordiques again?
you lost because you have a shitty defence
we know that when we lose in quebec it's always the fault of others.
[removed]
yvon deschamps i didn't know you on reddit. i'm laughing out loud man
esti chu bawling !!! mdr!
with 18 million above the payroll, this joke is perfect!
ethnic*
the lightning would have deserved several penalties over the 5 games they did not have. the refs have bet in my opinion;)
honestly, it has been by far the best refereed series the canadian has participated in this year. especially the 5th part.
woosh
or inflated the vasilev-inflatable
in your ass i suppose 🙄
please send your resume to a sports radio/tv station, you just to good of an analyst to be downvoted here. live your dreams mate!
or, and hear me out ... c't'une joke.
no it's your fault
no one here cares about your shitty opinion or what the roc thinks of us. go back to the hole you crawled out of.
so brave
so edgy
i want to be like you when i grow up
the fields? wasn't it parizeau, belly, having drunk too much bud light?
hey, i saw one of the ch bonker players one of the tampa players and not get anything.
maybe, but the bar was not very high.
back at you...
guys why are you bothering to translate your answers into english? he's a big boy, he can (and deserves to) use his brain too (or in his case, google translate)
[removed]
[removed]
it happened, but the ch received penalties for nothing while tampa was absurdly intense, borderline moron at times and ... * crickets *
he was going to do nothing until danault went wild and yelled at the referee, showing the blood on his glove ...
you are quite right. unfortunately, the rain from the hurricane brought out worms like them and when the sun reappeared it forgot to go back underground due to the celebrations. it blew their brains out, the poor.
tabernacle!
jk probably mtl. soooo salty!
2 time stanley cup champa bayyyyyybeeeeeee!
already you mentally you haven't grown for a couple of decades with your quebec bashing running through your veins
and secondly you're not on r / france, we speak french of course, but we are not french
refereeing was excellent in this series. they missed a few calls from both sides, but honestly our loss had nothing to do with that.
lmao i never expected our team to make it this far. i'm proud of every players in this team. they gave it their body and soul. i just think it's uncivilized to go over to another sub to brag. crawling worms ain't got much to brag about.
i agree with you. worse in addition, nobody scored thanks to the advantages of a penalty (seems to me).
the refs against the golden knights were a lot more fickle.
i strongly disagree. i don't know if we watched the same games.
but anyway, who cares. it's from the past.
that's great! this is how the world learns and immersion will do more for her than hundreds of hours of french lessons.
but don't let go, there's nothing more disheartening than when she tries and everyone answers her in english. just go on and correct serious mistakes (once in a meeting i referred to something like a brothel after learning the word. they corrected me ...)
i am an english speaker from ontario, i have lived in ontario all my life. i learned french until high school, but i tried to continue my education when i can. it is because it is a big part of our canadian identity, of our history. it's more difficult for me because outside of school, i don't have the time or the opportunity to learn or practice french. when i went to ottawa / gatineau to work last year, i tried to speak in french at mcd, maid i think the young person who helped me spoke in english to me because he knows me. an english speaker. it's funny now, but i want to speak french in quebec because it's what it is like to be canadian for me.
me, i am born here, but my parents are immigrants from asia. i know that french is not my first language, but it is also important for me as english. canada is a country made by the efforts of immigrants, and francophones are a big part of our multicultural and canadian identity.
i know i have a lot of masc./fem errors. and also with grammar, etc. (i have to go to the googe translate to find words that i forgot). i'm sorry because i can't speak french better than a lot of french speakers can speak english, but at / el_explorator6 i want to say 'thank you' because it's not easy. and you can appreciate that fact, and more, you can appreciate your friend's efforts. anytime someone can give an opportunity to someone who wants to learn french, is a small victory, and i am grateful for your efforts. i hope that more english speaking canadians, and also new immigrant canadians have lots of opportunities to learn french, not just in quebec, but in all provinces.
to all, my quebecois friends, and to the op, thank you :), maybe if i have children in the future, they can speak french better than months lol.
i will be moving to montreal this summer and can't wait to live there. i have been learning french for two years but since it is a difficult language it will be a long time before i can speak fluently. i just hope that people from quebec are not bothered by my attempt at french.
i have the same situation at work. we introduced the concept of "french friday" for our daily meetings. on fridays, the meeting is in french and our english speaking colleagues are very motivated!
that's great! i am an american immigrant who is going to live in quebec. so, i speak english as my mother tongue, but i know that i have to learn to speak french well in order to integrate better into quebec society.
fantastic! let your colleague know that i take my hat off. it takes effort and willpower, but it's very kind of her
i have a similar situation, my workplace started to operate in english after we started working internationally with an english-speaking partner. i admit that it makes me a little uncomfortable, but at the same time i don't see how we could function otherwise.
i always try to prioritize french when i can, write an email in french and then include an english translation afterwards, for example.
but honestly despite my desire to preserve my language, an international working environment remains an international working environment. no one can expect all of our partners to learn french, everyone already speaks english, it's just impossible to want to speak french all the time.
in short, it's something that is never easy, we don't have the choice to adapt and it really shows that there are limits to how we can realistically defend our language in all sectors, there is no perfect solution.
lucky, at my job my department was transferred under the supervision of the american branch, so all my meetings are now in english ...: /
ubisoft?
the secret is that this is not just a victory for french or for your daily life, hers will also be only better, imagine the positive impact on the feeling of belonging and personal accomplishment. if we promote french by showing that it is in everyone's interest, people become less suspicious.
i would like the english to learn french in quebec, not so that they stop speaking english, but so that they become bilingual (* skill * bonus) and that they feel included in our ~~ country ~~ province . (country that we will perhaps one day have if we manage to show those who oppose quebec sovereignty that it also has their advantages. for now we are selling independence to the separatists and the french to francophones, but it's better than nothing! at the same time, it's probably too idealistic to imagine a separation in love and benevolence and / or a union without compromise).
it's a pleasure to read anyway, don't let go of op!
i was an it consultant for the caisse de dépôt a few years ago.
there was a product that the caisse wanted to integrate and there was a bug, in short the supplier had sent a guy from the states to assist.
at one point we were 20 or so in a war room and the discussion was in english because of the guy from the usa. a senior manager attended the meeting and at one point he demanded that everything be done in french, and told the supplier to find a translator.
it was really on real and cool, except for the guy from the usa. finally they found a local guy from their company to come and translate.
it was the same with me when i lived in qc (mtl) - everyone thought that just because my french is not very good that i didn't want to practice but it's wrong: practicing is the best way to s 'to improve
> according to his ~~ t ~~ learning.
no kidding, i work at the federal level and that's not bad. i must however underline a few things. many english people, especially * young * (<50), go to great lengths to learn french. that being said, it's almost impossible to learn french at a respectable enough level (if you don't start from childhood) to be able to work ** comfortably ** in the language. between us it's good, but when you have to talk / explain certain things to clients, you can't really have an 80-90% understanding. so many of them end up discouraged and give up, and that's a shame!
congratulation!
now try to imagine a meeting in which a majority of bilingual anglophones would make the effort to speak in french because of a non-bilingual francophone on the team ... difficulties? me too
i worked in a company that tested meetings in english for a while to accommodate two english-speaking colleagues, out of a total of forty employees. the result was quite negative: although everyone has an acceptable level of english, it was quickly obvious that the meeting was losing quality, both because of the presenters and the spectators. the bottom line was that it was a lesser evil to have two people who don't understand so much (other than summaries) vs. 40 who understand 75%.
hi! good morning!
these kinds of stories always make me happy. your colleague will learn french much faster thanks to the open-mindedness shown by your team. foreign languages can be very intimidating for some, especially at work.
i am very happy for you. i can confirm from experience that the dynamics in the meetings in french and in english are totally different. i wish you to find out now.
what a great story!
as an anglo born in quebec, i find it disturbing that even today, children in quebec are not taught in both languages properly.
there are plenty of anglophones who don't speak french and also plenty of francophones who don't speak english.
we could have a huge advantage in speaking both languages, but our government takes us for idiots. it would be so easy to deal with if all primary and secondary schools were completely bilingual and not the filth that we have now (and that we had there thirty years ago) to give just one french or english class per week. .
in my opinion, they don't want to do it because it serves to divide the world and to create artificial conflicts to better control the population.
i am proud to be from quebec, but i am not proud of the government, be it provincial or federal. gang of crosseurs.
i am a kiwi, that is to say that i come from new zealand and i spent two beautiful years in quebec doing a french course but i unfortunately decided to return to new zealand after my girlfriend left me but i want to go back and i hope my french will still be good enough to talk to people
i'm looking to come back march next year is that a good time to come back ? 😁✌🏼🥝
i’m an english speaker from the states that moved to nova scotia  in 2016 and it’s basically become my life’s mission to learn french now. not just because i live in canada, but without the language i’m basically unable to speak with 20% of the population. i miss out on books, movies, shows, art because i can’t speak french. my french is better than it was a year ago, but not even good enough that i was comfy writing a paragraph on here. i could basically have a conversation with a three year old, but i really am making an effort.
and if i ever want to move to quebec, which i very well might someday, it would just be the respectful thing to do. or even if i don’t. if i believe in the idea of canada, why would i not do my best to make it so francophones can go to english canada and not have an easier time?
nice !
yasss
most of the time, it is written in english. our group has english speakers. suppose there is only one angel in the universe and everyone is talking about it. you all worked with me, we didn't live in canada. so we look forward to it.
we recently opened our doors in france, we are grateful for his work, we have shown our determination to support their efforts. it's a technical meeting, even though it's in french, but you don't think they'll come back to the next level.
they are little children who die in poverty, enjoying a happy daily life. it can promote your french skills which you can use in your work. i'm glad i tried to make me doubt it.
all
it would have been said by my grandfather, i would have said to myself, wow.
in 2021 ... your personal victory in there .. meh
for her, yes. but i'm not catching the part where you benefit from an increase in french in your daily use in quebec ... not sure that you catches what's parity if you say that ... but hey.
** some fixes: **
> - she let us know not long ago that she was starting her french lessons, and i *** let her know that the effort was *** appreciated *** because this is not easy, and i ** supported ** his effort. we have some *** less technical meetings *** and we will introduce french little by little according to *** his *** learning.
lol sorry, but it's the effort that counts.
** [edit: hey i upvote his post, my sickening gang lol! it's his only paragraph that is a bit disjointed, let's calm down, don't be offended lol.] **
[deleted]
and especially thank you to you for this beautiful answer! i can see the effort you put into writing it, keep it up!
if you speak like you write, you're already doing quite well! keep it up!
i love your way of writing our french. you put a lot of effort into it and you already write it a thousand times better than thousands of people in quebec. french is hard, kudos!
oh wow, bravo for your french, you are doing well and i can tell you that as a quebecer, it is a great pleasure to read.
despite the errors have understood what you mean.
this is the most important in communication <3
you are on the right track with your french! i understood very well despite the errors :))
a little trick, drop google translate and use deepl instead. in my opinion, it is much more precise and accurate. personally, this is what i use for my english lessons (i am french speaking).
do not hesitate to come and take a tour in quebec one of these days.
in general, especially in montreal, the world is grateful that you make an effort. there are a lot of people who move here with only english and who after bothering that they cannot be served; when you hear someone trying honestly, it's nice.
not at all, any attempt is good :)
quebecers are nice, don't hesitate to make an effort! i'm an english speaker and i had no confidence with my level of french speaking but after starting a job in a warehouse (lots of french speaking people) i realized that everyone just wants you to make an effort. even though i make lots of mistakes, i feel more confident and improve my skills in french every day.
i wish you good luck and i hope you will have a good experience like me in montreal :)
it is really a small minority who are disturbed by this. the majority of people are happy to see that you try! the important thing is to understand each other and even with a few grammar or syntax errors you can understand each other well.
that's great! what made you want to immigrate here?
small correction: we say "i must learn" rather than "i must learn". the verb tense to use is the present subjunctive, not the present indicative.
do not let go! 👌
i no longer make the effort to translate into english following my emails. with all the existing tools to translate, those who do not understand all french can make the effort of a copy-paste in deepl.
[deleted]
it is so true that independence is good for everyone. it's a shame that people don't realize it more.
tse, with a little will, it works. it should not be rare for performers in europe in this kind of situation!
wow ... congratulations to this manager who put on his panties.
my ** disgusting ** gang;)
dude, correcting people's french without them asking for it is a recipe for making them feel inadequate and discouraging them from using it. french used without perfectly following the formal rules of its regulatory authorities is still much better than someone who decides not to use it at all - and we should celebrate it, not criticize it!
dude, don’t correct people’s french writing, it’s exactly what pushes people away from the language.
english is my second language, but it became my primary language because of how awful my french teacher’s were. everything i wrote was wrong, grammar always corrected, hell i’d even get detention for accidentally speaking chiac or talking english to the anglo students during lunch. 
it annoyed me as a child, as if nothing i wrote could ever be good enough, and so pushed me towards english which was much more accepting and forgiving, and taught that communication is about understanding. if someone understands you, the verbal transaction was successful. 
to this day i speak in french but write in english, because it’s comforting and i know people won’t chastise my grammar or spelling(unless it’s really bad). 
if we really want to protect the french language and help it grow, we can’t keep giving people a hard time for grammar and spelling mistakes.
we really should figure out a way to simply it and make it easier instead, with less rules and reliance on a bécherelle.
i started my french again three times at cegep lol i still have some catching up to do
we didn't care lol. in addition you have a mistake in your text: p.
and don't treat others offended when it's you who takes the time to correct a editor's faults. lol you're doing projection.
seriously, it's stupidities the same that make the world become "covidots" and not take measures seriously.
she's a real joke.
sti que chui tanned with inconsistency, he looks like a 6-year-old child who gets caught up in his own lies.
because religious people are a bunch of professional whiners who have gone to court.
the guy who makes a fire with his 5 other friends, he's just a citizen alone facing the machine, he has no time to go to court, he works the next day, i hope he will at least challenge the ticket!
it's funny my faith in jesus has just come back, i'm going to have to wake up that of my friends xd
it's been a long time since it had anything to do with science or the virus, it's only politics. the religious vote en bloc.
policies of ti-old, made for ti-old by ti-old.
they were damn pagans on the verge of fire, they all burned with $ 10,000 less !!! it's at church or it's nothing, it seems it's not complicated. just remember no islamic sails please. we are laymen, st-géribouère de boutdviarge
just as it is okay 200 people queuing outside at costco during the holidays when the cases were at their highest. but it shouldn't be 5-6 in a private yard hey ... everyone knows the virus is less dangerous in commercial parking lots than private yards.
maybe the caq wants to encourage us to burn crosses?
a ** big ** / s. i'm ironic because it's better than crying.
no, but we don't care about religion? why give him so many privileges?
but the world of your exposure
go shit, seriously. fuck you legault for leaving us all in depression for your bullshit.
ostia of religion in marde. when are we going to stop giving favors to people who believe in santa claus scarement?
everyone at walmart vs 250 in a church. all the comparisons are conned. governments abuse their powers. it should already be over. you must go back to normal life.
we are really in favor of a mass extinction
people who do not go to sects still have to wait for this gathering 🤷‍♀️
i thought quebec is secular
i'm going to go against the grain a bit. can we think that they were much closer to each other around the fire? can we think that around the fire, they weren't wearing masks, unlike the church, and that they weren't all washing their hands when they arrived, unlike the church? and that they were drinking beer when you know that eating and drinking increases your risk and then you put things in your mouth?
that being said, there is no reason to open churches more than cinemas, it's the same kind of environment. and as for me, there is no religious argument that holds.
the caq
ah, the beautiful logic of our wonderful government!
it is proven that believers have an aura that neutralizes the virus
i think the difference is that this is a controlled public place vs a private place where people can do anything.
(but i agree that churches, cinemas and other non-essential stuff should be closed given the situation)
yink what to pray on the edge of the fire! what is the problem?
fuck you legault pis sa gang
unfortunately or not, the law places more importance on faith and its manifestations.
cult places do not have the entrepreneurial spirit. you make masses with wine, a $ 20 cutlery and you're in business ...
it is per room of place of worship.
i said to my mother "it seems that the old people are vaccinated".
the church is restricted, it is watched, it is limited. the diocese of quebec passes direct communion to the bench to limit contact and close passages. i don't know if it's going to be full often at 250 ...
30 young people in a classroom: perfect !!!!
but you are not allowed to go swimming in a restaurant!
e: eat *
"almost 30 days between the two events, not the same measures but it's not serious, so i look brilliant in my words"
all shut up = it complains
it reopens = we understand tickets given here is a month of reopening, to still complain.
just the same, there have been 2 loosening of measures since, comparing the two is pretty stupid but hey ...
are there 250-person churches in the province of quebec?
you knew what to do before the election, you know even more what to do in the next election ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
look you have to stay confined, you understand? it's over soon, don't let go!
now the religious do not understand, they believe in bullshit that does not make sense. i believe in english it says: "you can't fix stupid".
it is because jesus died to free us from the fires of hell. it's clear.
jesus = good.
fire = hell, less good.
oh yes
i know you're gonna think i'm boring, but we have rights.
some are inalienable, like your freedom of conscience, your freedom of worship, for example.
i don't agree with the measure because it doesn't make sense of it except that the measure makes sense to the extent that our constitutional rights that we can never lose are not lost, even if it should, fuck.
basically, we can see that we are not directly under a dictatorship precisely because we still have this kind of security cordon around our rights.
[deleted]
a cynic would think that churches are mostly frequented by old people, so members of society who no longer bring in much money and who cost the government a lot in pensions and medical care ... in other words, a slice of the population of which, if it disappears, it will help the government's finances in bad shape with the covid ... but i'm not cynical
[deleted]
don't tell the english that they're going to burn churches again!
[deleted]
6 people who party, can be without distancing, no masks vs 250 people spaced, with a register, it is not the same.
shows & cinema are entitled to 250 people inside.
i 100% understand the rhetoric behind confinement and limiting contact, but yes, that's it.
my girlfriend's family has a private sugar shack in the back of the woods and we've been meeting outside around the fire for a few months. the children did ski-doo and the adults had 2-3 beers chatting around a fire. in theory it's illegal but i'm comfortable because there is indeed no risk of contagion.
i also understand the idea that you don't want to let people gather in private at their homes in the middle of winter pcq it's obvious that after 10 minutes at -40, matante is going to say "well, have me go and warm up in inside a little me "and it takes 5 minutes and everyone is leaned in the kitchen to talk.
but there with the good weather returning, it is totally conceivable to receive friends in your yard and to stay 2 meters and outside all day. between 2 couples of friends who make a fire outside or a private classroom with poor ventilation, or a performance hall with 250 people, i know which one is a greater risk of contagion.
indeed. measures that have so many exceptions that they not only become ineffective and unnecessary, but totally derisory
it really landed from the track at the beginning of march, wtf legault, stu fa gros?
[deleted]
me, made a covidot, i feel good 🤪
well, let's see 'moi i'm getting around 9:30 am all way it changes rien !!
there is not a single party which would have done better than the caq !! ** / s **
yeh! the shoes would be funnier.
it's okay to lose patience.
i don't understand how they can ask to read the 1810 words of the article when the person is not even able to read the title.
i like it so much when companies (also hydro-quebec, ricardo…) act like real people and respond frankly to people who spread disinformation. it is refreshing.
i understand them lol. we've been in a pandemic for almost 2 years and people are still tweeting
esti cancer social networks.
even after all these years, i don't understand how these people don't realize their stupidity. always the same story, people with a very low level of education, greedy for conspiracy, who spend their day posting nonsense on facebook. people with little or no science education who challenge the consensus and prefer to listen to their favorite conspirator.
as they say: pu capab.
[source](
the cbc should disable comments from their posts on all platforms. their role is to inform, not to provide a platform for disinformation through their comments.
respect for the acadie telejournal
cudonc it is you just oi who do not understand the post?
chef's kisses! \ * muah \ *
i do not understand :-/
based.
edit: lol what les downvotes
excellent that, i would like to see more publication openly mocking these retarded antivaxes
why is she breaking glass with her breath?
i want to know what’s going on but i got a 59 in 9th grade french if someone could please help i would be thankful
acadia doesn't fuck around.
could someone explain to me what is passive-aggressive here?
not as much, but they can
lucky we have the passport. we are safe.
[deleted]
i haven't seen radio canada once talk about covid and list sources that support their claims, is that normal?
why are you putting spanking mustard here?
don't upset them. not. to upset them.
this is where you see that their "research" was not made up of readings, but actually a lot of videos with "information" being thrown at them.
law 4 of human stupidity: smart people always underestimate the destructive potential of stupid people.
among other things, they are expected to be able to invoke the strength and discipline to click on an article to read it in order to become informed.
you have to put bobby hill's grandma who puts a poster in a school classroom window and gets quibbled that if the class could read, they would be very angry.
social networks and their consequences have been a disaster for the human race
or just the world who wrestled with hailcorporate
did you think they were going to see the light and change their thinking?
that, but also like on reddit nobody bother to read the article but still decide to share their silly opinion.
so besides being tweeted, they are arrogant.
if that's any encouragement to you, i often watch what the complosphere comes out as news (without interacting of course otherwise i get blocked lol) and they are clearly sinking solid in the rabbit hole and skidding right now. they start to argue with each other and trust each other less. they find that the demonstrations and their "work" are useless. they begin to realize that they are waiting for trump or maxime bernier or jesus but nothing is happening. they are starting more and more to integrate the freemasons or the devil in their aka explanations, it makes less and less sense. they write more and more messages like "omg i am more able to continue this fight" or fail to believe that there is really 91% of the population vaccinated (everything is wrong with them anyway). looks like there are a lot of them but it's really a handful of people very very very vocal
what saddens me the most are those who dive with a minimum of baggage - i have a few around me ...
but there was a wound, a deeper ailment that was exacerbated by the current situation ...
the ability to adapt, however, is what put the human race to the top ...
\ - on top of what ... i don't know ... - in any case allowed a being (very) physically fragile to remain the dominant species.
it's not just on social media. i listened to richard martineau on the radio the other day, and he let a guest (a comedian, from what i remember) talk about how vaccinated people are still able to spread covid as if getting the vaccine isn't makes no difference. the host, martineau, was only stammering incomplete sentences like 'oh yeah, but you know, there were studies that show you're wrong with that' while letting the guest speak freely ...
anyway, it looks like he was doing just the minimum to be able to claim to have kept his journalistic integrity, but he actually meant what the other guy might have been verbalizing on the show as a guest. really a joe rogan moment, i found it ...
the stupidity has always been there, but with social networks it has obtained a voice. and educated people who could fight disinformation like this ... don't spend their days on social media.
it gives what it gives.
i completely let go of facebook at the start of the pandemic in may. after 1-2 months i could already.
i also cut ties with people who lived in denial and who did not believe in science.
since then i have a lot less stress in my life and things are going very well.
oh shit ... i think i caught the covid by reading the comments !!!
wow, the overwhelming majority of comments are ignorant. i knew this world exists, but i'm honestly surprised at how many.
[the comments section of the article] ( as that such is also full of geniuses ...
doing that will give them even more fuel to cry out against conspiracy and anti-free speech fascism. no i think their method is good, we allow them to express themselves but we demolish their arguments in the public square without any politeness.
naître et grandir has deactivated its comments yesterday (publication talking about vaccination in children). when pages as simple as birth and grow have to do that, it's made ridiculous.
indeed, their guy or girl from social networks comes from the same school as wendy lol.
you and bagou01.
there are 3 images.
there are three images
vaccine - good.
no vaccine - bad.
big pharma pilled
cbc wrote a full article about how vaccinated don't spread as much covid. people wrote down that it was false, the cbc acadie (new-brunswick) told them to actually  read the article in a sassy answer.
sassy being "something wonderful happens when you click on the link. you get to read the full article where the journalists cite their sources from scientific papers and include hyperlinks where you can read them"
which really, is how all of those comment on fb should be answered.
put some!
there are 3 images.
ah yes, you know that the vaccinated can still spread the covid.
it's done, twice. i take a third dose when you want.
to the conspiracies who believe that it makes infertile and that it separates our soul from our body, know that i am vasectomized and that i am red, therefore soulless. checkmate esti.
funny how on reddit most of the world wants to get vaccinated, but on facebook it seems to be the other way around. tk, in my news feed ...
tested for covid positive in september and vaccinated twice for 2 months. i don't want to relive another covid, it's been 9 months and i still have breathing problems.
it should also be emphasized how easy it is to get vaccinated. there are plenty of mobile clinics without an appointment, and a website that is not too badly designed to make an appointment. no waiting on site, employees and volunteers are friendly and professional. no excuse not to do it!
do not.
because i already am.
even i with my huge phobia of needles got vaccinated. i'm waiting for my 2nd and i don't want to do another online course !!
i have reached 12 doses there, i am doing my best to raise the statistics but i am starting to feel a little dizzy
i have just received my second dose, now i am waiting for my 15min to leave. i'm glad it's done :)
please
it's done my friend, i have my two doses. i encourage everyone around me, i do two-dose celebratory bbqs for friends / family vaccinated.
my 2nd dose is on the 21st. i am going to go there on the same date there simply because i am having the operation this week for something else. one medical tip per week please
done and re-done ✅ am ready for the third one if necessary. yes to post-pandemic life!
i had my 2nd dose in the morning. the little pain starts when i lift my arm.
i had a bit of trouble with the second, because i changed region in the meantime, and clicsanté wouldn't give me an appointment. finally i went through the troubleshooting, it half worked, i had an appointment, but on the spot they could not find it;
they passed me to a pretty girl who validated that jaildoua to have the vaccine so they passed me in the walk-in-but-with-an-appointment-anyway
all that to say, even when it doesn't work, it still works well enough for everyone to be there.
hello, i'm pro-vaccine, but knowing it's still in a clinical trial, pfizer terrifies me. i would like to be like my family and friends and just go, but the fact that no one knows makes me too anxious. i listened to the * without filter * podcast on vaccination (with françois-xavier lacasse ph.d), all along they say that we do not know what it will give in the long term and that we are not sure of much about the effectiveness, but the conclusion is that we should be vaccinated anyway and i have trouble understanding it ...
i'm 0 conspirator, i confined myself before it was even announced, i wear my mask and i clean my hands, i have my twinrix, tetanus vaccine, the whole kit. pfizer, like all pharma it's a bit sketchy, but i take advils once in a while and i take centrum vitamins every week, i like the company, i even have stocks. i don't think there are 5g chips in the vaccine or whatever, but i know it's new technology and that the canada.ca site mentions that it is still in clinical trial and will be for them. 2 years after administration of the second dose. i choke.
honestly, i feel completely stupid ... i'm 21, i was the only friend of mine to see the benefits of confinement, i encouraged those around me to wear the mask and there, like a hypocrite, i dare not get vaccinated and i fear the lifting of the measures.
kid, i was treated crazy at the beginning of march 2020 because i told my entourage that it was serious and that we should confine ourselves (nothing intense, just minimize physical contact), and there i am treated the same facing the vaccine. ** would a charitable soul please enlighten me? **
ps: what i would like, personally, is to have a choice. i am starting school again in september and i don't know if i will be able to do my lessons remotely. i saw that they thought to "punish" the students who do not want to be vaccinated by preventing them from attending face-to-face classes. in my opinion, this is not a punishment, but a bad for a good, a choice, and i will be more than happy if they offer the courses in hybrid mode.
it's done .. sick as a dog after the second, but i'm top shape now
i have my two doses, my wife too. my parents have their two doses. my beautiful parents. the brother-in-law too. my best friends too.
we are at 100% vaccination among eligible people in my inner circle.
it is made for all those who could receive it at our place. we are waiting for the decisions concerning the youngest to be taken (it was talking about september-october for the children before the results of studies)
i tried to do my 2nd dose yesterday, but after mentioning my symptoms after the 1st (tingling in the chest) and after those in charge learned about the cardiac history of my father and my grandfather, my father was pushed back. appointment (august 1) and, i was advised to go through my family doctor and probably meet a cardiologist in case or before having the 2nd dose. (in relation to the risks of myocarditis in young men rare but probable) i was given a sheet on this subject with information from health canada. it may be that if i get my 2nd dose that i will have to stay in the hospital overnight to see if the side effects get worse than the first one. in any case i want to travel, but it pisses me off that i am prevented from the 2nd because of that. i should have shut my mouth and just took it x \ _x other countries may not recognize some of the medical conditions, but the people in charge of the vaccination center looked very stressed and refused to give me the vaccine.
i had informed the officials that during the first dose i had had these small effects, but that they were not very serious in my opinion. however, they insisted.
leaf
[
i am currently sitting in the chair after my 2nd dose to count the minutes to be able to go home
awards for such a low effort post?
done friday. 0 side effects, even less pain in the arm than in the 1st.
i feel that i am in the minority on the other hand. but that's okay, i was ready for the side effects. nothing that we haven't all experienced
i had my 2nd dose yesterday, the first day i was eligible to receive it. feels good! literally no side effects except for the arm pain, although the first dose knocked me out for a good 32 hours.
2 doses made. if i need a third, no problem. to the anti-vax (including the "it's my choice") go live in fermont please.
i had my second dose on saturday, i'm still struggling with the side effects but i'm proud to contribute to the joint effort.
my roommate does not want to be vaccinated under the pretext that "in the end, we will put the pandemic behind us but the hospitals will continue to run around with bits of string" and i admit that i am running out of argument.
ideas ?
the 2 doses are done !!!
i have my appointment next week
i'm doing my part
i have my 2nd dose next week and at the beginning of august we are coming to rimouski.
it's been 3 years since i saw my parents :(
2nd dose thursday! it's coming!
i just recently received my second doae !! and if i need a third one, go there without hesitation! let's go gang!
i am a student and we will not be able to come back in person unless we reach the famous 75% vaccine for young people.
if you are in that age group, seriously, what are you waiting for?
your selfishness harms all the students of the province, it starts to be heavy.
looks like i have a hard time believing that young people are the least vaccinated.
why? what are their reasons?
i got my 2nd dose this morning lol. funny to see this post now.
it is done. walk-in is hot.
is there a vaccine?
if you do not take the second dose, it injects you with the protein spiked after its lifelong product in your body and passes it on to everyone. forget about having children.
ok i'm kidding the big difference between my facebook and reddit vaccines is that they don't seem to know how to write either. i had to fight with the auto corrector besides so that it injects faults
it doesn't work for their site, it's been 2 times that i try to get ahead of my appointment and it doesn't work. i have other things to do than fight with their patent which doesn't work so fuck off. it's been 1 month since the government has been sticking around that young people have not been vaccinated. maybe if the site worked it would help.
2nd dose received today 👍
heard today, in the queue of an saq in repentigny:
"hey seriously, we're going to buy fake vaccine passports, it'll be okay anyway"
i don't remember ever having given such an accusing look as this one.
i had my second dose on sunday night. hell yeah. i can't wait to see the% of the population who will have received it before the fall ...
it's done for my two times but for the effort, do you count if i have my 5-year-old vaccinated tomorrow (regular vaccines, calm down the opponents ...)?
i just took my second dose! i'm really happy! 😁
just to say a little on the bad side ... my partner simply let slip into a conversation at work the date of his second dose (which he had anticipated). result: two weeks exactly after his second dose he must now go to the united states on a business trip ... although it is not recommended to travel and that it will greatly affect our family if he has a positive test on his return (i do not can not telecommute and i have important medical appointments shortly after his return) and my baby is not vaccinated. he took his second dose anyway, but “surprisingly” no one else at work got ahead of his second dose in time for this business trip so very few of them left… in the end i got it. impression that he puts our family more at risk by anticipating his dose than if he had left it at the end of august / beginning of september whereas at the base he did it to protect himself and the family ...
already done 2 times :)
i don't want to be vaccinated :(. at least not right away
ok mom
/s
i have a hard time understanding why people under 30 need to be vaccinated, people over 65 are almost 98% vaccinated so yer where the risk to people is "risk"? i thought the vaccine was working so why ruined the economy even more for next to nothing? variants, that's another story.
i'm waiting for my second dose!
my husband and i had our 2nd dose in april, my son will have his second dose in 2 weeks, my second is waiting to be able to open the 12-17 appointments and my last one is still too young to be vaccinated, but it will come. surely when they will authorize it in the fall.
10 minutes later, she praised the regular windows 10 ^ tm updates. in his sleep, he can now be heard sighing that savvy customers can subscribe to the office365 ^ tm suite for 3 years at a reduced rate from the windows store ^ tm with promo code heavenlygates2020. * for a limited time, conditions apply, see the windows store ^ tm for details. *
take a good look at the conspirators who said that she is an actress!
what i find special is that, according to radio reports, nearly 60% of the nursing staff in this chsld do not want the vaccine. they prefer to wait to see if there are any side effects and / or are afraid of the vaccine because of how quickly it was created.
you are the one to trust scientists and doctors, because i can't wait to be vaccinated
there is still a lot of pessimism around me since it will be a long time before everyone is vaccinated, but knowing that the solution has really started is a huge boost to my morale, but if it will happen at the drop of a hat.
she is far away in the light. i can't see me spending another six months in the red zone.
vaccines are dangerous. best example: in 1796, vaccines were given against smallpox. everyone who received them is dead today ... history teaches us things.
silly question: why does the lady not have a mask? i find it rude if it's an oversight. or is there a medical reason, like you have to drink something first?
i sincerely hope this will help remove restrictions ... let's say my mental ramparts are at the end of their rope
heard on radio-can: 95% of residents want to be vaccinated against 60% of workers in chslds, they want to wait for the vaccine to prove its worth. that last stat makes me sigh through my nose.
a big moment. tonight i give myself the right to be in a good mood!
i open the pool. when will unrestricted gatherings be allowed?
i launch: april 15, 2021
i knew it! the vaccine turns you into an old man! faaaaiiitttesss vooooss rechhhherches
[video.] (
latest news, she was spotted at the apple store muttering that she wanted an ipad. the 5g chip ordered by bill gates now makes her a zombie with the sole purpose of buying apple or microsoft products. i say no to vaccine.
just in time for the january carnage 🥳🥳🥳
i had no idea the vaccines had already arrived, nice!
do you know when are we all going to get some?
can someone tell me why the laboratories which made these vaccines negotiated with the states (us, canada, europe ...) to exempt themselves from legal proceedings in the event of problems?
la presse announced more than 300 quebecers vaccinated. shoutout to the lab techs at the bottom of the pay scale who made this possible.
shoutout to the supply chain which resisted the russian hackers (it is not true but it is sure that in a few weeks we will hear about it).
finally crisss
bravo gisèle!
i'm getting vaccinated next week, our chsld is one of the first in montreal, if not the first ...
i think not forcing myself to get the world vaccinated for all the conspicuous and hardcore crack vaxes is reasonable in banning them from traveling. well no ginette, you and your family will no longer be able to go fooling around in florida with your redneck pro-trump friends. ctu flat😐🤷🏽
did she get 5g with that?
finally, the light at the end of hope. let's keep the tunnel.
injection performed.
silence.
3...
2...
1...
*1er canada
gisèle lévesque, i could never find a more quebecois name if i tried.
bad extension work on the part of the state. the government should educate the population on what made it possible for this vaccine to be developed so quickly: accelerated funding, passed simultaneous tests, increased frequency of infections in the population, etc. it should even be part of a campaign.
it's easy to laugh at people who talk about 5g worse than incredible theories, it's, let's face it, pretty ridiculous and you don't have to think about it for long to understand it. it's less easy to laugh when you realize that vaccines are normally studied over 5-15 years, in part to study short and long term side effects. that's worrying, but it's so easy to laugh at extremists that we forget that there is something other than caves that write dictatorship on their masks. i think there is a lot more to discuss about this pandemic than the worst examples of quick and wrong reasoning.
a big thank you for (what do we call them?) the medals / awards, but it's gisèle who deserves them!
hoping that this vaccine works and is safe.
thank you françois🙏🏾
yeah test it it on the old people you almost killed off by ignorance and inaction at the beginning of the pandemic. does anyone else feel like if you shook is hand, after you would feel grease on your palm?
the first microchip in quebec! bill gate will be happy!
edit: / s, sorry it was not clear!
she is not wearing a mask ...
[removed]
the vaccine contains microchips so the government can track us!
>facebook would like access to location history, your messages, your camera and microphone, your next of kin
>
>>no
>
>>#yes ☑
if the right woman isn't trying to screw teams down our throats, i can't believe it.
no need to put microchips on us, our phones are already doing the job very well.
the lady on the right is 100% paid by the government to do that, i have proof of that. fat vo recharges.
we are all actors in life ...
yes, she is an actress paid by the government!
... and how would someone, like, get that acting job? i ask for a friend ...
false flag operation!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
madame doubtfire!
before marrying raymond lévesque in 1996, gisèle lévesque was known as gisèle dufour ...  she is known for her role in the bye bye in 1980 and for her role as marie-hélène pinson in the famous television series "les moineau et les pinson".
cqfd
(it's a joke, just in case)
she's one of sandy hook's children.
they went looking for her far away!
"research it"
stop giving ideas!
gorgeous !
the paragraph on the day off also reveals how they are not even screwed to minimally personalize the letter according to the position held.
a pen and a day off, after agreement with your supervisor, during a priceless pedagogical day! it is even specified that the pen is ** as a gift ** it's so embarrassing ...
my dad almost got a may west as a cake to celebrate his retirement after almost 30 years of service.
the key word here is 'almost'.
it makes me uncomfortable
my girlfriend receives mardes every 5 years and they work in a crdi.
from what i understand, we don't want to give them big gifts because it's taxpayers' money and that could cause a scandal…. meanwhile, bosses are getting paid for training seminars in the south.
* the pen is as a gift but the delivery is $ 14.99
i calculated for fun, the super day off represents about 0.016% of the time worked over 25 years. sad.
i would literally prefer to receive nothing.
well there you have a lucky cursed pen and they provide the paper.
seriously i would frame it in my office just to fuel the cynicism .... but i imagine you have more office either.
thank you for being there for young people for so long !!!! keep up the good job!!!!
i believe teachers deserve quite a bit more recognition than a day off from a pedagogical and pen.
teachers, you deserve a lot more recognition for what you do for our young people !!!!!!!!!
i don't think i've ever given a teddy bear award so sarcastically. go for the csdm ...
despite everything, thank you to you for teaching your knowledge and especially for helping to educate thousands of our children. there is not an afternoon at home nor a pencil that will never be able to touch the contribution you have made to our beautiful society.
ps was the pencil at least a mechanical pencil? / s
and the second page talks about the next budget cuts to plan, just to recognize you
to say that at the time, they gave personalized stuff, like a watch. we'll never know that.
/ r / aboringdystopia
isn't that a joke? nothing to give would definitely have been better than that
pen?! one in full ?! calisse they are transferred on the top them others.
keep the pen to sign your resignation one day. you tell them you saved it just for that.
in the city he gave watches but they could not get the right because it is paying on the backs of the taxpayer.
probably the same reason in schools ...
nice, a day when you can make the corrections at home, instead of doing them in an unnecessary meeting at school.
"thank you for your 25th birthday, here is an a4 sheet"
even no frame or whatever, just an a4 sheet.
the budget is as big as for a whole school and it seems
r/antiwork
i'm curious, but what would you have liked as a gift, as a civil servant ...
i'm just curious.
if you want recognition, come and work in the private sector. no one has ever accused the government of being a people-centered employer.
hey it's still the only pen you won't have to ** pay yourself **! so stop complaining! / s
doesn't the pen have to be a pen anyway?
i choose to work from home to make up for what i never have time to do at school or to take time off, still stay at home and do the same thing i would have done in teaching. .. hard decision!
iiiish it is beautiful to work for the government.
at my job i had 5 more days of annual leave when i was 10 years old. not a one-shot, like those * cheaps * species out there.
you are lucky! my mother has been teaching at the samares school board for 33 years and she had fuckall!
i have already seen the owner of a new car dealership wanted to thank one of his mechanics for 20 years of service by giving him a flashlight during the employees' christmas dinner ...
what, you are not always on leave during the pedago ?! / s
this is one of the reasons why despite my bachelor's degree in teaching, i will not pursue my career as a teacher. the machine is counter-calices of you.
in our company we offer a day off each year to our employees when they celebrate their anniversary. we also offer a day off each year of birthdays. we also ask the birthday person to choose a restaurant where they want to eat and we pay lunch to everyone present at the office. we also go get a fire cake at an italian pastry shop, and we end the day between a diabetic coma and the onset of cholesterol.
we are an sme.
the pens are free, we often order them from hamster. (/ s)
congratulations all the same to this teacher. 25 years of dealing with all of this is superhuman.
meanwhile government entities have great packages when they leave their post after only 3 years of service.
"as a gift"
at this point it's better not to give anything at all
i received a watch and a $ 200 gift card after 10 years at best buy
for real i work in health, i knew perfectly well that by working for the public, i will never have a big gift. the best gift is the imo guaranteed retirement.
you get a lot more to be at costco 25 years!
in my job, if you have 5 years of seniority, you have a paid sabbatical month.
but hey, a leave of absence during a pedago and a pen!
as a future french teacher in high school, it really scares me
then we wonder why nobody wants to do a bad job like that
cssmi, 30 years old: a caltron certificate!
it's pathetic the recognition the system gives teachers ...
just the same i worked for just a year in a tech company and i received two bottles of water, 2 hoodies, 4 sweaters, a jacket, a cap, a frisbee, a mask, 3 pens, a notebook of notes, several meals and so on ...
in addition to a day off when you have a good part of the summer to you it is a dismal screeching for 25 years of service.
i don't know if it's true but if it's true it's unbelievably contemptuous. i really have a hard time believing it is so ridiculous.
a day off to take in july
seriously i got caught. i was all smiles and i finished the letter in a screeching tone. so let's see calvary! it has no class.
here is what you are worth, a pen and a criss of leave in day "off". basically they say that this pedagogy you will be able to rest ... ho by the way, we offer you a pen, so that you can correct the exam papers: /
haha the pen, i don't know if it's like the govt in the old days, it was still a turned wooden pen with little gilding ... but yeah, it's still a pen.
forbidden to have fun with the public!
wow a day off, in pedago .. like now you will be able to resume your work .. never and be late on your tasks. yes!
for those who find the "conditions" of this famous day off strange ... it's worse.
there are 20 pedagogical days in a school year. among them, 8 are set by the school board (3 before the start of the school year, 3 after the last day and 2 in the middle of the year, called institutional), and cannot be chosen. there are 12 left.
among these 12, 2 are reserved for a semi-annual teachers' conference, which cannot be chosen. there are 10 left.
of these 10, 3 are chosen by management, which are generally used for meetings or training and cannot be chosen. there are 7 left.
these 7 teaching staff, called self-managed, are chosen by the school team, generally placed strategically (before parents' meetings, after the holidays, etc.). they are therefore the most relevant and useful teaching methods for teachers ... and they are the only ones they can take.
am i crying for nothing? may be. but honestly, i find it more insulting to receive * that * than to receive nothing at all.
lololol
well let's see, harold is the worst stock photo to use! the meme is not called "hide the pain harold" for nothing, he looks so tired of being there!
it should be called shartwell with that face
call a friend!
harold: "but they are all dead ..."
he is also at privamed's in brossard.
i think the jean-françois des loisirs should be enough for me as a friend.
the "jean-françois des loisirs" quite a title that
yes i saw harold in the newspaper in a golf article a few years ago!
i love to see it used everywhere by people not aware of it 😂💕
hahahaha wow
harold is a champion. i like to see ariane also from time to time. she is not a meme but she is found everywhere.
i make an interac transfer to anyone who can grab it from me.
i can you just see the flexible bus schedule ...
he has so lost all desire to live harold ...
dovid?
osti! this guy looks like he's crying out loud
maybe not the best solution for advice on how to deal with evil ...
harold that's a stock image guy, they really paid $ 20 for that image lol
yeah, but the person on the other end of the phone can't see that;)
it would be representative of their quality.
jean-françois des loisirs is an absolute memetic lord
> used by people not aware
i don't know, working in design / marketing is just the kind of thing i would try to plug in as often as possible in as many places as possible.
in fact on the contrary, the image is so clearly uneasy that it seems to me it just takes someone who chose it for the meme, 99% of the unaware world would probably choose another image (according to my statistics clearly out from my where-harold-a-mal)
i would like to know ?!
in fact it was just an example of sport, it is the cover of the montreal newspaper of [may 14, 2020] ( + 2020 & client = ms-android-samsung-gs-rev1 & prmd = nisv & sxsrf = alekk02kag4htq1kn2s0y4_mhik2hnn9la: 1613270559809 & source = lnms & tbm = isch & sa = x & ved = 2ahukewim35kvrejuahxxflkfheijaqqq_auoanoecaqqag & biw = 412 & bih = 722 & dpr = 1.75 # imgrc = 15pnul0nhisgym)
that's the face you face when you get the bill from chartwell
surely the new generation does stuff like that \ ^ \ ^ (i'm in graphic design studies so i get you)
but i think the design elders / older ones don't know too much x)
"hide the pain harold" is a meme, born from the fact that a stock photos template (photos you can use for newspapers, magazines etc. for a fee) looked like this.
the model is very friendly and loved by young people haha
holy shit thank you
thank you!!
derien \ ^
it's the four-day week that i want ...
great. a month's vacation should be the norm. we clearly don't have enough in north america, when we compare ourselves.
worse 35 hours, it is more reasonable for work-family balance, mental health and etc.
i work 35 hours and have almost 6 weeks of vacation per year. it's so different from other jobs i've had in the past. the hour i earn per day allows me to cook and eat better. and go train more.
i often get contacted by other companies to offer me jobs and i always tell them that i will not be interested in changing if they do not meet these conditions. even if they offer more pay side.
the quality of life is much more important to me than the salary.
i am in favor of the qs proposal above. everyone should be able to enjoy life.
once everyone has this quality, we can think of working just 4 days.
during that time at the caq, no extra day off, it would hurt productivity.
i live in finland at the moment, and people usually accumulate 2 days of vacation per month. summer is a 4-5 week vacation that people take! i was in shock at the start.
some will qualify qs as the extreme left, i think that's like the bare minimum. we are dunces compared to europe in terms of work-life balance.
i do 33-34h a week and have never been so productive. at 40-50h i often grabbed my ass because i was always tired.
wow it's so cool that a political party talks about it! honestly, this is a very important issue for me and it wins my vote ...
in the usa, they don't even have a week's vacation under federal law ... why are we trying to take inspiration from that? we can do more like europe.
reading the comments of those lucky enough to have a less intensive schedule, it really does a lot of good for your mental health.
i'm not normally in the qs electorate but wooow good job!
let's walk towards degrowth.
if only that was a promise they could keep ...
in europe, they have it, the 4 week vacation per ~~ month ~~ year. i have always found it to be a "luxury" that our continent should also offer to the wage bill. it may only be a resource in the eyes of employers, like stock, equipment or real estate, but it is a resource that has a family to take care of, that has a role. in society other than "cog for business" and who did not ask to be born just to work, pay bills and consume.
edith: woops, a shell
i do 32h in 4 days, 4 weeks, 5 illnesses, 5 weeks without pay. summer schedule to be with my kids from june 24 to september 3. i wouldn't change that for any money.
it's not just work and money in life.
a week between christmas and new year's day.
one week during the spring break of the great fall and winter.
one week while the daycare is closed in the summer
kin, your vacation month is over.
you haven't had time to go to cancun or finish your 5,000-piece puzzle crunch. just vacation to clean your house because you had no time during the year.
in my case, i work 24-30h / week. honestly, just enough so that i have some money left to save because otherwise we live a life of slaves ...
they're going to get me to vote for them if they keep coming up with good ideas like that.
better yet: 32 hour week (4x8). no sense in having to work 5 days a week. this tradition comes from the time of the industrial revolution.
i do 40h weeks, i take 5 weeks off per year and i have one friday off per month on top of that… and i really don't feel like i'm abusing the holidays.
that we can give an employee only 2 weeks .. in the context where the 2 members of the couple work, with children, wtf?
["take your combined years to the lowest itas units"] ( .jpg)
crime ... i am a student and it is my current conditions of employment that he calls for. that’s saying something ...
we have to believe that there are too many people who are being exploited and who have been conditioned to accept conditions of exploitation.
in europe and the uk it is 4-5 weeks, plus the 12 days or so on public holidays. in canada, it is barbaric. also it is less well paid than the united states. give me humane working conditions, and the pr and i will vote for quebexit.
i already have that at my job, i don't know how the world manages to survive with 2 weeks of vacation, i would come crazy.
interesting. these are the kind of promises i love from qs. it's boring that other things turn me off had gone
fuck it. they have my vote. just for that.
it's the fucking norm in europe. (as for the holidays at least)
2 weeks is fucking not enough. worse, 40-hour weeks are too much. especially with the lifestyle we lead astheure. it has nothing to do with the 50s and 60s anymore.
all for better worker privileges and rights! god knows most employers won’t help, it’s time the govt does something
35h is already too much .. i do not know about you but me with my salary and my days .. 4 days instead of 5 i would wear better .. and 1 month of vacation is very good .. just enough in my opinion!
if it's not empty promises i'll vote for you my gnd.
i am in working time arrangement, i do 35h / week but i get paid 32h. i can take my floating holidays when i want, in addition to my 4 weeks of vacation and my 10 annual illnesses. this is the best.
chui early childhood educator and us it's usually 4 days, it's nice at least
they will have my vote is really their platform
good luck!
honest questions from someone in the transportation business. would transportation companies (federal jurisdiction) also be affected by this proposal? for information, a normal week for a driver varies between 45 and 70 hours per week. considering the fact that we have a shortage of drivers and that the average age of drivers is expected to exceed 49 years by 2024, where do we draw the line?
this is what i have in my job. 35 hours and one month of vacation (including one week already accumulated) upon hiring. i can use this time crate as i wish. which is great because i'm pregnant and have a lot of follow-up appointments. my stress at the job has dropped so much since i got this job!
it makes sense. women are now working; so a family now works 80 hours a week, not 40, for a worse quality of life. what should tighten is that women and men each work 20 hours and both office and home work equally share
i don't care about 35 hours, but a month's vacation?
i am in.
edit: unless he means after 35 hours it's extra time, i am in x2.
i already have 1 month of vacation and i am paid for 37.5 hours and therefore my pay would drop by 6.6%. so, not cool for me.
on paper i agree 100%. i would be the first to be happy about it!
on the other hand in reality i do not know how we can apply that. i work in the field of construction / transport. my drivers work crazy weeks of the 60-70 hour week kind and it is difficult to provide on demand. if we impose a 35h week i have no idea how we will get by, already that we have a huge lack of manpower.
can we make an excellent career choice and still need 35 hours and a month of vacation? no stupid question.
basically he just proposes the conditions of the public service, forgetting to say that it works in the public, because performance is not an important criterion. at least, in terms of performance, we are used to not being efficient to the public. ben can not wait to see how you transpose this in the private sector without spending more money below to stimulate ... money that we do not have ... qs always have good plans, but still without serious implementation plan and still in the absence of the necessary economic details. fairly easy to say things of the same ...
for several 35 hours a week it is a drop in annual salary. those at the minimum wage will be compensated by the increase in the minimum wage.
a guy has my job with 12 or 14 weeks off a year. but he is 76 years old.
because the world in government is working too much ...
[deleted]
and an apple turnover with that
one month vacation hahaha
cool! who pays?
smes that do not arrive?
nice! as usual, promise everything and pass the bill.
no awareness
leftist populism ...
being belgian, i see this proposal with a moderately optimistic eye, here is why.
first of all, do not imagine me as a big capitalist, that you contrary, i am a small salaried graphic designer, follower of the decrease and voluntary simplicity, rather big in my hours, not a boss opting for the exploitation of its employees.
on the other hand, i am belgian (immigrated 7 years ago) and the reason why i am not sure is that it is precisely this kind of measures that have pretty much thrown my country (and france) down. i know that belgium is not at 35 hours, but i see it from a more global point of view: socialism "to the extreme" as i call it for belgium and then france, has sunk our savings, because poorly applied. by that i mean they were implemented before we found a way to fund them. as a result, belgium is the country in europe where employment is the most expensive and is the most taxed, france comes just after. from memory, for a salary as a graphic designer, of 1000 € per month i cost my employer between 2500 and 3000 € because all these beautiful measures (paid vacation, employee protection etc) must be financed. so obviously, it becomes very discouraging for a boss to employ anyone and we fall into the vicious circle of "no longer anyone creates jobs, companies relocate, but social gains are irreversible so we have to finance them so we further increases the cost of labor so employment disappears even more etc .....)
when i arrived in quebec, i found it to be a sweet spot between belgian ultra socialism, and the american "march or die". we are protected here, we have vacations, etc., less than in europe of course, but at least there is employment, which is not the case in france or belgium.
france, which has implemented 35 hours for many years, has unemployment which explodes and increases each year without managing to stem it, and is in the process of reconsidering its choice of 35 hours. some companies (i am thinking of the smart factory) have even made their employees give up these 35 hours, otherwise they relocate to romania because the factory can be more competitive elsewhere (it's disgusting but that's capitalism).
i know all these popular measures are tempting, but these cuts in productivity and increased vacations have to be paid for somehow, and if it's by increasing the cost of labor, the risk effect good to just be a reduction in job creation. hence my first reflection: ok for these measures but how to finance them without putting it on the back of the employee? (even if you think it is on the backs of the bosses, it is always on the head of the employee that it falls when simply fewer jobs are created).
i see these measures as populism, because we must first either change the system, or put in place other measures that will prevent companies from relocating where productivity will be higher, or reduce other expenses to cushion the cost. of the proposed measures. this is a good idea, but if poorly applied, there is a good chance that it will happen the same way as in other countries where it has already been applied (poorly). so of course it is less popular for gnd to propose to reduce such cost, such tax aid to multinationals, preventing the mobility of companies etc, so it starts with what is more popular. it's like buying everything on credit, telling yourself that you will pay later, your car, your house, your tv, your furniture, your laptop, your cell ... it has a good chance of ending badly and it is better to first find a way to pay for them while reducing other costs or saving money.
completely ridiculous.
35 hours per week = decision of each employer statutory holidays = federal decision
the provincial can do what they want with their officials ... but let the free market do what they want.
[deleted]
when you have no chance to take power you can promise anything
i'm not against it, but the majority of jobs with skilled labor already offer similar conditions
i already have that, so that the communists will not have my vote anymore.
o'toole: "siri what's the bap?"
steven guilbeault, tse the guy you call heritage instead of environment. well done justin.
trudeau: me who did not clean my room and who tries to find an excuse.
yfb: my father who is in tabarnak
i have never bypassed the pope either.
trudeau: a deer on the highway.
yfb: the 18 wheeler.
caliss stop fighting over who has the biggest dick, tell us what's the best you are going to bring instead ..
trudeau: me in economics at cegep who did not do my job looking for excuses
yfb: the teacher and the department
did i just see a murder with words? 😅
why does blanchet talk to trudeau?
from the theater period
it talks a little too much about fighting
although it's funny, i am against insults in elections. we deplore the fact that the conservatives tend to use this strategy, but we do not denounce when it comes from our side.
"your record in environment in quebec, i did not follow it" ????????? it seems to me that knowing the other chefs is the basics. kess that
an "environmental record" would be to plant 2 billion trees in ten years. blanchet's environmental roadmap, even if we find it good, it's not a "record".
asti that he speaks badly.
the mcinnis cement plant in port daniel, had there been a bape? not sure! from my memory, blanchet was minister of the environment when marois had ruled out the project of an environmental assessment ....
the 3rd link 😒🤮
[deleted]
yet trudeau is right about this, according to the 2019 fact check of [radio-canada] ( blanket)
this was in my feed for some reason.
as someone who doesn't understand french what was the argument about?
this excerpt reassures me, i made the right decision by not watching the debate
wow the liberals, whether it's at the provincial or federal level, their preferred tactic: pitching guys at 7 o'clock when they don't know how to convince the electorate with their ... i was going to say merit and good ideas but that's something. things that they seem to be seriously missing.
the big aberation here is when trudeau says that all canadians trust steven guilbeault.
no offense to the majority bloc, i find that it lacks class. especially since trudeau was telling the truth! if he's lying about his past with easily verifiable things, he's probably lying about something else!
two idiots who fight like idiots.
not strong insults. you would think the maturity would be a bit higher.
frankly, no class.
i have nothing against blanchet but i am a little kid in this debate.
the only problem: trudeau is right 
it's so hard to be interested in politics when it's just a shit show of hostage and bickering. it becomes ridiculous. i am 19 years old pi i am more mature than them ciborium.
haha this is so pitiful, they are supposed to be "the elite" and are unable to apply the kind of constructive exchanges and discussions that i am trying to teach my 3 year old daughter :-d
how can i see the entire face-to-face?
what was the subject? i find it funny to hear about the environment from steven guilbault when guilbault was appointed minister of heritage and has nothing to say about the environment ...
they used guilbault to look green, and then put him in an unnecessary role ....
if i understood correctly, i didn't miss anything not to listen to this?
i don't care what he has to say; if you ask a question and keep interrupting the answer, you're an asshole. whether it's against trudeau or not.
it's sad when the only thing an outgoing government has to say, after 6 years in power, is to put others down instead of showing positive actions.
apart from "the conservatives are here, the bloc is that", trudeau has nothing to say in this campaign.
it's music to my ears.
it was excellent hahaha!
maybe if he planted a magic bean in his ass he would have a column that would grow?
for me,. trudeau loses me when he does his uhms and the fact that he can't put out a full sentence without filling it with "filler words" (sorry my english). it's tiring to listen to. what's even more tiring is when someone talks about someone doing this business there. fuck i could have.
i gotta blend in….wee
can anyone explain to me what is happening
all that bap talk. it makes you want to eat a korean bibimbap.
can anyone explain?
translation pls
trudeau is a fucking idiot.
don’t come to newfoundland justin. u are not wanted here
baveux-blanchet launches this so that we forget the fact that he is already in the cables with his cackling of the third link, from which we finally learn 'that he never said he supported the project',
what they say?
what does that mean?
why is there a debate? are you having elections soon?
we won in the final at us! fuck the rest!
i have listened to all the games. they lost the first 3. for the last one i told myself that i was bringing them bad luck and i decided not to listen to him.
at the end of the second period (i think so?) i was told that it was 1-0 for the canadian! i said: "ah bin criss it works my business! i'm just going to put it on tva sport go see how it goes fast fast"
i'm not kidding you, i stayed on the station for 30 seconds maximum. tampa counts their goal.
i closed everything and went to do something else. news this morning: canadian victory
moral of the story: keep me posted because i listen to it
as we should! i’m just happy for the ride! go habs go!!!
they won or lost?
wait, did we win or not?
it's my attitude too. it was a good game yesterday.
on?
the hardest choices require the strongest will. (very rough translation)
thank you for your sacrifice
i have the same curse as you - follow me on the news
we found the culprit, get your forks out!
if they win the cup, i pay a beer, but you're better off not opening your tv just once in the next 3 matches!
you shut that tv off on wednesday and that's an order!
i think you must be dumbfounded to believe that the habs are going to bring her back to mtl. they must win 3 more without losing one ... i just can't believe it.
won, we won't be swept 4-0 after all.
we won 3 to 2 in overtime
i... think they won? i don't follow hockey at all, but google says 3-2 for the canadiens, so... they won? this meme makes no sense to me based on that info.
we won the 4th game. the 1st, 2nd and 3rd game the canadian lost.
a good game? what?
i almost picked myself up at the cardio institute, i won't be able to take a lot of others like that!
i got screwed, i didn't listen to the last game and i won't have my beer!
don't worry, tampa just let them win to win the home cup haha
they avoided elimination for one more game, finals are a best of 7 in the nhl.
this was game 4, and they were down 3-0 in games, now 3-1
all odds are against the canadiens. tampa bay is overall better than montreal, and montreal has 3 more games to win in a row. a single defeat means we're eliminated.
chuis good for 3 others!
i had heart surgery last year. i survived the game, you should: p
i watched with my mother and she agrees with you!
it's good for your heart, no need to do cardio.
i live in gatineau, if it happens again i die with the emergency that is closed.
yeah, he let them win in overtime, tse so that it doesn't seem too much ...
which is the basis of this meme: we are celebrating but we haven't really won the whole thing.
yeah, but they've been there before.
it would be less hard on the heart if we won the other 3 kinds 5-0 in the first period: p
it’s more that we aren’t in a good position at all and are celebrating even thought we aren’t winning by any stretch.
it's a coping mechanism.
to be honest, i'll be happy if we go down with at least a bit of a fight. i think that's most people's view too. losing game 3 was a bit depressing but if we go 4-2 or even 4-3 i'll be satisfied.
do i know of people who bidded over $ 100,000 and didn't get it. and good for them because it's not worth it caliss.
you forgot no inspection and no financing check for the mortgage when you signed the offer to purchase, but it's close.
i'm in gatineau. my cousin bought a row house (well ordinary, there ... 1200 square feet, 3 bedrooms) in the plateau for just under 200k in 2011. she listed it at 385k last month ... she s 'is sold a couple of days later for 489k.
489k. a townhouse. i do not believe it.
to see that i tell myself that i am lucky ... i made an offer 40k less than the asking price and it was accepted!
anyone who overbids will cry in 5 years ...
this year i realized that my meager chances of ever being able to afford a house had gone down the drain for good :) the maximum i could afford (i'm alone) is $ 185,000, so now it's $ 185,000. 'is dead.
oh well. millenial life.
i have a house that i bought for 210k .. my neighbor sold his this month for 450k. she just has an inground pool and one more room wtf
if only the banks would use the tools they have at their disposal like they did when i bought my property.
order an independent appraisal of the property. the difference between this valuation and the purchase price is paid by the buyer.
so if i offer $ 350,000 on a house and the independent appraisal returns $ 300,000, the buyer will have to pay $ 50,000 because the bank can only authorize a mortgage loan of $ 300,000. you must also pay the down payment on the remaining $ 300,000.
this means that the properties are sold at their fair value and that the bidding up almost no longer exists because the vast majority of buyers do not have the funds to bid.
fascinating that banks are starting to have discussions with politicians but not using these tools at their disposal.
all of canada has become a big laundry.
location, location, location ;-)
yes ... my mother is a real estate broker for direct owner and it is done right now
what intrigues me the most is the percentages of real estate agents. we agree that the% not changed. houses sell for more and in 2-3 days. so what do agents sell ... 5-6 houses a week or so. it's been like this for a year. the sellers are in heaven. lots of more expensive and in good condition. i can't even imagine the agents!
it's like the crisis in 2007, my parents had a twin at the time and they sold it so much more expensive that they bought it that they were able to take a house,
municipal inspection value: $ 1000
i'm glad i bought before the pandemic and not in montreal. i paid my $ 250,000 4-bedroom split in 2020. today, quite a bit less beautiful homes with unfinished basements are selling for 50,000 more in my neighborhood. now is not the time to buy
what are the government's plans to stop this inflation?
when the central bank dilutes your purchasing power by 20% in a year, that's what it gets. 
people are looking for safe havens (stocks, gold, real estate, etc.). nobody wants to keep their money cash bcp he loses 20% per year since the start of the pandemic.
it's funny, it looks like the brochet house on bonaventure island before it was restored.
is that one of the houses on bonaventure island ???
it is surely a large field!
the landscaped land on which the property is located adjoins public land giving access to hundreds of km of trails to the mountains and rivers ...
for me, buying the covid is a bit like throwing your money out the window
maison à sais tite at the back of the row bought at 80,000 and sold without renovation for 350,000 ...
[deleted]
well there, look at the field! normal that it is worth so much, put a roux or two in order to devalue it a little ....
with a nice subsidy from the city of montreal to keep prices high, at taxpayer expense!
it may be fair in montreal, because in quebec the market still seems relatively normal to me.
17 iberville, baie-comeau. g4z 1w5 ...
one and a half storey cottage with rescent interior and basement to be finished.
large lot close to a primary school and downtown.
asking price $ 180,000 negotiable. see the exterior on street view and msg me in private.
for young professionals in teleworking or retirees who wish to keep their active lifestyle in complete safety.
man, people are going to get ** picked up ** when the market corrects itself.
i put 300,000 above and i didn't get it. but it was for plexes in montreal. not a house.
i just made an offer for 75k more in longueuil and even then we were refused, the market is very hot at the moment ...
if a seller don't want inspection, save yourself
usually inspection is a condition of purchase and the buyer is pre-approved for a certain amount.
3cac in the tray? in what world did she list that to 385?
i have the taste to list my house in "joke" for 1 million to see if there is not a fish which catches. i paid 300k for a 1300 square foot bungalow + basement ...
my townhouse 1/2 hour north of toronto… $ 1,000,000 + so send 🤷🏼‍♂️
there are people who advertise their house too expensive and the negotiations are going down, and people who voluntarily display their house too expensive, leading to overbids.
it's different selling strategies, but it means you can't take the listed price to be fair market value.
> i made an offer 40k less than the asking price and it was accepted!
was it in saint-andré-éloigné?
if that can console you, it's not too great for a professional couple either, unless you are very rich.
not sure that i want to pay myself a ben ordinary condo at 500k with my girlfriend and spend all our cash on it. because you have considerable costs other than the mortgage.
see my how ...
which corner are you shopping in?
>oh well. millenial life.
well, it's pretty normal anyway. you're not really supposed to be able to afford a house in or near town on your own on an average salary. this is usually something that is done as a couple; we are not in 1950 ....
and the pool doesn't add value to the property. at least not very much.
when a swimming pool becomes an investment
even if the banks would do it now, there has been enough sales to have comparables that reflect the higher prices in the market.
they're still doing that assessment. however, this kind of evaluation is done by making comparisons with other sales that there have been in the same sector.
so if all the other similar homes in sector x sold for the same price the buyers are offering, their home is "worth" that too.
i can't believe who don't do it anymore.
the bank sells insured mortgages, it's in their best interest to lend more and their risk is virtually non-existent. otherwise we would still have rates of 4-5%.
i don't think money is a problem for those who want to launder it.
they do this when the loan is not covered by cmhc insurance. so when you give 20% (i just did). on the other hand, if you give 5% your loan is insured, so they don't care, don't ask and make more money in interest that way.
it favors the world who have less down payment and the bank makes more cash. (it's win / win according to the bank). except that now it's bidding up and the interest rates are low, so more people come on board and want to buy house prices go up, fewer people can afford it, the interest rate continues to go down, and so on. following.
i am not unfan.
some would say that you looked like you were playing a pun too. others will say, on the contrary, that you looked smart. me, i say you had air conditioning.
it's a sign that your girlfriend is pregnant.
i am a simple man. i see a play on words, i posivote.
since i have a danby brand air conditioning, i stuck a bold written paper right next to the brand for this reason.
what you're looking for from your audience when you play a pun isn't laughter ... it's "ugh" with rolling eyes! if you have that, it's a success!
courage!
the legend!
unfa!!!
after this gag, i want to tell you: "kill me!"
i love.
unfortunately, we're on reddit, so i can't help but suggest that you leave your girlfriend behind because clearly the fact that she isn't laughing means that she could love you, that she was cheating on you and that she had a developmental problem during childhood, nothing could be done man, not laugh at a joke from danby gras it's clearly a red flag in a relationship.
imagine that you are a chinese-speaking quebecer who thinks that the funniest thing in the world is french-chinese puns (and with a monumental humor as a bonus). my potential audience, you can fit it in a dodge caravan and there is room for luggage.
- who is the quebec singer with the most energy?
-isabelle is not tired
...
- i called my dog françois.
- why?
- bin, it's françois le 狗
...
- why is tintin after opening his gps application?
- because tintin is 迷路
ok ok ok i quit
bon gag à la guy mongrain that.
hahaha, she is excellent, thanks for sharing.
i don't have the ref. help ?
i just finished a late day, and i admit that you made me smile. take a posivote and have a nice evening!
a perussian fan.
you are there with dan bigras in your room, and all you can do is talk about your air conditioning!?!
j'ai ri.
(but i am not a reference because i laugh a lot on all the word games).
yes !   
it's been years that i put the word gras on every danby brand electro (microwave, air clim etc.)
good job !! ahahaha
my girlfriend is the same. this is how straitjacket is.
we laugh, we laugh, but his duet album. with laurence jalbert was good at clisse.
good faque you have danby gras in room to cool you and your girlfriend.
does it make you happy? puzzled? uncomfortable ?
it's a nice sharing with the group.
thank you.
another ?
/ r / quebec deserves a page of dad jokes…
it is excellent!
badum tssss !!
i laughed, if that makes you happy, but i'm an easy audience. the less funny it is, the more hilarious i find it.
as the chief says in the twelve labors: "it's good because it's fat!"
wow!!
posivote for good vibes.
j start with you !! to refresh me with the good foot!
in tk me it made me laugh!
>\* /u/rookie_one sets mode: +b unfa!\*@\*
eh eh! thanks, a nice nickname for him that.
i admit that i laughed all alone too!
explain to me like i'm 5 years old?
forgiveness hahahahahahahhahah
i told this joke there to my wife. she told me she wanted a divorce. i answered him: "you will kill me if you go away"
chu dead man. you killed me !
if that consoles you, me, it makes me laugh.
very good!
aweille, yink unefois.
i find your attitude very cold
no, it's pronounced seulfan
sigh and positivote.
well done! i laughed at him in green! i'm a big fan of pérusse so i love this kind of pun!
ok this one wins
hahaha this is exactly what i got.
simply if you go away.
r / relationship_advice in a nutshell.
op must also let go of facebook, register at the gym and find a lawyer!
me, i see red flags everywhere in this relationship. 🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩
this is perce
all of eastern quebec is currently triggered from reading the title
the pierced rock is in percé.
it's so fishy ... there are no spots to light up the rock, it's just impossible for it to look like that in the middle of the night. it's not a long exposure either, the grasses would be blurry. even if it gives a nice result, it's a montage.
dude get out of montreal for a bit! this is percé!
nice, but i have a hard time believing that the hay remained motionless throughout the long exposure ...
for some unknown reason, i did not have the possibility to put a comment and thus put the source. photo taken by patrice labbé that i found on facebook.
ahh california! ... it's beautiful eh ..
the photo is disturbing vrm pi i find it very singular. the gulf without horizon which becomes the sky is a ghostly climate. well done
it is in percé for example
to see more photos of the artist: 
beautiful photo of our solar system!
wow..send that to national geographic
sometimes i forget that our province is beautifully beautiful.
i still remember the time when the percé rock was really pierced!
a spectacular photo!
##
the percé rock is in ... percé !!
i tell myself it's probably just a joke he's making. otherwise, we have a lesson in quebec geography to give him :)
for real i think i was just too much into drink. i have no idea why i put gaspé when i know very well that it is the roché percé lol. i laughed at it and it's okay that we laughed at my geulle too!
the guy had a good flash
you can do a long exposure with a flash. the flash is used to expose close objects and long exposure for the rest.
oh my god i'm thick!
[deleted]
[deleted]
this gentlemen is the technique of karma farmers reddit. a title just enough off to trigger people and generate comments
it is not false...
in addition, it is not a photo of a city, but of the rock and the golf du st-laurent
[deleted]
it happens negative comments, at least op won't take the next post lightly. we didn't know facebook here; )
acht uhr! don't change the cheese plate!
i am french, and i have never heard this expression. so, i checked and it was validated by the [ministry of defense.] (
just.
i did not know this expression, thank you! at home we used "to be called jules" and besides i do not know the origin of this expression ...
it's gonna be arthur'ne chevous!
arthur! spoon !
when we said: * arthur with hard buttocks * we were told: * arnold with soft buttocks *
i liked in time
friedrich cailloux and eight o'clock laroche
to be called “andré arthur” is to be yelled at really loudly.
false.
uhr in german is pronounced our and not ur (long or)
so it actually said "ahrtour (namaison)"
very interesting!
heille, are you the guy from l'histoire will tell us? :-)
funny origin for this expression.
well, we'll have reached the godwin point after 2 days
cool little historical anectode! thank you! :)
r/etymology 
go milk that karma 😉
it's a good nugget, mission accomplished!
excellent anecdote. and excellent username lol
always so skilled with foreign languages these french people.
mouhaha! biography!
well, very interesting.
[
wow haha love etymology or slang
thank you ! i had never heard of the origin of the expression!
"be careful because here you are going to call yourself geoffrey", the taverbier in kaamelott.
and it's in r / quebec, why?
cou-yerre !!!!
we are strong ... in apples ...
the little birds !!!
the flower in bouquet fânnnne ... and never is reborn!
ok clearly a reference ... but to what?
interpreter!
it is true that when i see a "suddenly", i wonder if i am not rather dealing with a false french who tries too hard to imitate a french.
same, i had never heard that.
i think in some neighborhoods it's still used to warn the dealers when a patrol is coming
we're one of the lucky 10,000. : d
oh yes !
a jules was the nickname given to the chamber pot several years ago, and that has to do with it.
[deleted]
what does that mean?
i spent two weeks in germany with friends (in kempen) surrounded by 100% german, i did the test with them and it works. i don't know if it's a question of regional accent but it really sounded arthur.
the same way we say [couuuuilllère] (
hahaha! excellent!
[deleted]
do you live under a rock or what?
i like fruit in syrup.
(prrrrt!!!)
ave cesar
*prrrrrrrttttt*
couillard ... are we bored ???
forempom ??
camelot
i have no idea
we like to complain about our tax rate, but this type of program is an incredible advantage for our quality of life.
[deleted]
i would love to see a study on the impact on mom's mental state. i took a total of 6 weeks of paternity leave and 5 of her 6 weeks were mainly to take care of the little one and the mom, who had had a somewhat difficult delivery.
yes, it is known: quebec is the best country in the world.
worse after that you hear say: quebec is the florida of canada
your yeule esti, we are the denmark of north america
wow. it's a statistic that throws that to the ground.
> although fathers can share parental leave with mothers for a maximum of 35 weeks in all provinces, quebec was the only province to offer non-transferable paid paternity leave of up to five weeks at the time of release. 'investigation
it's fucking cool after all. the dads present in the life of their little ones from the beginning, it is a mark of a society which values the family.
the title of the publication is very wrong; that is not at all what the article says. the article says that of all the fathers \ * who taken a leave \ * to take care of their child, 93% use paternity leave or parental leave, while there is 7% who use other leaves (sickness, vacation, etc.), and the same for the 24%. this statistic does not say anything about the percentage of fathers who take leave (parental, paternity or otherwise).
it was the best time of my life. i took 3 weeks at birth, 4 weeks at my expense when the baby was hospitalized in the first year and i also took the last 3 months of the first year at my expense (2 remaining weeks of paternity + at my costs).
since that time, i dream of being a dad at home.
fun fact: my father when i was born (or maybe my older sister's, maybe my memory is failing me, 90% sure) took paternity leave.
the point is that he was a judge at the time, and he was quite simply the first ever in his profession (or at least among the court on which he was sitting) to take paternity leave in quebec. it was in 1997.
the next step: fathers who take parental leave alone, not at the same time as the mother. it's an incredible asset when fathers do that and it's still not widespread enough.
besides, it's not like 5 weeks was enough. my husband stayed with me for 3 months after the birth, then he took 2 months alone with our son at the end of my one-year leave. i think it's pretty much the minimum, you just have to plan before deciding to have a child, not after!
it's rare that i'm proud of my province these days, but now i'm really proud.
at my first i didn't take it because i was working like crazy, at the other two i can tell you that it was non-negotiable. these are very beautiful moments and i strongly encourage the new father to take it
this statistic hits me hard. i gave birth last week with cesarean section and multiple complications. i couldn't even hold my baby in my arms. my husband, who took 6 weeks of paternity leave, was able to take over and take care of not only the baby, but me too. connected everywhere in the hospital and then at home, i cannot accomplish the simplest tasks (toilets, showers, meals, etc.). without him, i don't know what we would have done baby and me.
thanks to my husband, who took the leave. it is essential for our well-being, and i wouldn't know what to do without it.
they just take other holidays/leave which isn't pat leave.
> instead of paternity or parental leave, fathers often take vacation or other paid or unpaid personal leave on the birth or adoption of a child. in fact, 42% of fathers used their annual paid vacation to take time off work.
i want to take it to help my girlfriend when she is going to give birth. is it just normal to me? i would take it at my expense if it wasn't covered.
who is the 7%?
barbarians i tell you
proactively, my employer covered the rest of my salary with the qpip for 100% of my salary so that i could take parental leave. so i believe it is to the benefit of the worker and the employer. a healthy employee is a productive employee and proud of his employer .... i say the same 🤔
lucien bouchard:
> bunch of loafers! have you thought about productivity?
that's misleading. 93% of quebec fathers take some form of parental leave vs 24% outside quebec because those outside quebec use a combination of vacation and sick days to do their leave. all provinces offer shared parental leave, but only quebec offers exclusive paternity leave. most couples give all the shared weeks to the mother so the fathers make up their leave in another way.
i am in my maternity leave and i confirm that the qpip is the bomb.com.
my partner lost his job at the end of november and i didn't give birth until the end of december. the first thing that came to my mind was that he was going to lose his 5 weeks of paternity when asking for them because they take 70% of your salary and logically since he no longer had a salary, he was no longer going there to have the right to. we therefore asked their customer service for information and the lady was so reassuring and told us straight up: the rqap is really not made to penalize parents. so basically, they can go back several weeks in time to get 70% of the salary and when i heard that, i thought it was really great.
we may cry sometimes (i'm one of them), sometimes quebec is fucking awesome as a place.
the website appears to be temporarily down - is anyone else having the same problem?
i will soon be applying internally for a new position, and we are having our first child this summer (august). it's for a large quebec company, but i've never worked a professional office job before.
who can i talk to to know when to tell human resources and my supervisor without it fucking me?
i know i shouldn't tell them too early, but i don't know how to do it.
c precisely fathers, who are not in constructions that do that! pi is not a majority there i understand that too!
you are proof that fathers will use their leave to do what needs to be done! my point was more than there are for whom it is not the case!
my wife is going to give birth in may it's sure that i will take at least 3 weeks to give her a hand
another of the many examples of quebecois parasitism. in addition to generally spending less time each week at work and retiring at a younger age. it is easy to afford these luxuries when you receive ... 13 billion annually in assistance to poor provinces.
there's two sides to this coin. as an employer the cost is not insignificant. losing a employee trained in a very specific product range for five weeks is very disruptive to small businesses. they're not easily replaced for the short term. i know that i'll get blasted for this, but it is a reality.
yeah pcq its allows them to do a lot of renovations other than taking care of their kid !! (by the way i understand who do not do all this, there are some who are really useful)
well managed, taxes make us rich. this is an example. day care centers are another!
indeed, and it is also very unifying as an expense. nobody is against it and it probably brings a very beneficial contribution to the collective psyche.
i don't complain about taxes.
it's just boring that it doesn't end everything in services.
the little gifts ...
the private submissions that make the job cheap to be sure to get a contract in 10 years ....
financing to the private sector which gives absolutely nothing other than profits to the little friends ....
bonuses and others that ends up in tax havens ...
this is all that is really disgusting
we especially like that others pay for our personal choices; especially those who cannot take advantage of it. “insurance” of a planned event is fundamentally biased when the costs are shared between everyone (qpip contributions on salary). if the qpip were optional, it would become a simple savings account ... or a debt!
and what is your argument? that good government is better than me at managing my time and money?
because if you cut my taxes by $ 9 a week, normally i have enough to pay me quite a bit more paternity leave than the govt gives me with the money that was requisitioned on my payroll.
it's a loser for someone who is reasonably able to manage themselves.
but it must be said that there are people who are not able to put money aside and that the bulk of their annual savings is their tax return ... that they hasten to spend.
i have no children, it's not too much of an advantage for me.
we made this decision there because the calculation has a cap on the salary and it was too expensive to take it (50% of the cap and not my real salary).
i left everything to my girlfriend. just to be clear, i'm not complaining, it's not like i had no choice. it was more of a financial decision and with telecommuting, i still had time to get involved.
they just take other forms of leave.
> instead of paternity or parental leave, fathers often take vacation or other paid or unpaid personal leave on the birth or adoption of a child. in fact, 42% of fathers used their annual paid vacation to take time off work.
there are people who have to pay their tse accounts
it's american culture.
self-employed, right?
when my son was born i was starting my career and i was on commission, i couldn't afford to take time off.
but now that i know that a ti-clin esti on reddit is judging me, i question all of my values and my choices.
i'm not saying that's why, but sometimes taking paternity leave can have a lasting impact on your working conditions in life (it's a lived story for me).
with my experience, the anglos are a lot more macho than the rest of us. in general. even those who are super liberal, they have a weird fifties pride.
the youngest who are still studying?
i took 2 weeks instead of the 5 i was entitled to. one would have been enough ... the amount paid was not worth it for us.
you had to do like me, hit you with appendicitis 3 days after childbirth / the day you left the hospital.
yes.
> quebec is ~~ the best ~~ a country
i wish.
"put down my tabarnaques, it's me who leads here!"
her father is a beehive in a tabarnak!
what is going on with the old one at that time?
seriously, i expected to see her come out with her crown and large abdomen, not there it is indistinguishable from a layman point of view.
can't wait to see his face on our $ 20 bills.
fascinating
how did you know that a queen was being born? (for you to film i deduce that you suspected it) it's all really intriguing, we see bees all the time but i have the impression of knowing nothing about them!
it's so hot the world of bees !! when i was in cegep i worked during the summer at the bee museum in château-richer and it was so fascinating! i gave presentations on bees to school groups in the spring and to tourists in the summer. i didn't know anything about this area and i discovered a passion for it! we also had beautiful glass beehives at the museum and i just liked to park in front of it and watch the bees work, see them do their little figure 8 dance and follow the queens with their little white dot. too bad this museum no longer exists today!
did not think to say that one day: the queen is born! long live the queen!
i take this post to ask a question: are the bees doing well in quebec? a few years ago there was talk of a massacre in terms of the number of bees all over north america and i believe some pesticides were banned because of it. has it been resolved since?
[mandatory extract from papa poule, from 1min45s] (
-no, but what's the name marie-miel ??
- well your mother was tripping over bees. other options were alvéole, maya, marie-bzzzzz. but we couldn't really agree on the number of "z's".
i would love to have a beehive with us!
how does it work for a bee to be born queen?
a noble work that takes care of the queen and mother nature.
surper video, it would be all the rage on r / mildlyinteresting
one thing that is crazy with bees is that the sex of the larvae is controlled.
an unfertilized egg gives rise to a drone.
a fertilized egg gives rise to a worker.
an egg with royal jelly changes the larva's dna into a queen.
what will happen with the existing queen? will they kill her?
it's still impressive how vigorous she is right out of the gate. i expected a period of "awakening", much like butterflies.
did you see how she quickly got out and went to talk to the others right away ?! a true politician.
professional question, your job in the world of beekeeping allows you to make a good living from it? some important and super interesting fields are often overlooked and force / influence a lot of career choices. also, what level of study did you need?
bzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz... :)
god save the queen !!
god save the queen!
all hail the queen!
i always wanted to be a beekeeper
yass queen
is your job to film births?
the beautiful tites ants
long live the queen!
i don't see the difference between her and the others
english?
is she a mother-in-law or a queen?
i upvote for the correct feminine plural chord of tabarnac.
no kidding she is in a hurry because she wants to try to find if there are other queen cells to kill the other young queens who might try to steal the hive from her, it is common when several queens are due in a short period of time. .
took off as quickly as michèle richard who announces her departure from the garden party show
i am the queen of tele four season!
what's the deal with parakeets?
for the too young:
either the bees killed it, or it has swarmed, taking some of the foragers with it, or the beekeeper kills it because it is too old and no longer laying eggs and puts the whole colony in danger because there is not enough population.
[deleted]
the abdomen seems a bit longer and more pointed i find.
i am a layman and i do not understand what i am looking at. where is the queen?
why do i hear charles tiserre reading this
there are several ways, including spotting queen cells if you notice that a hive is about to swarm. the shape of the cell from which the queen comes out is different from the others. bigger, longer and a different texture.
the hole is bigger
to taste. if it tastes like royal jelly, she's a queen.
bees and ants, it's fascinating to watch. once my brother hooked a large nest with his edger and we saw the workers rush out the larvae.
it always depends on the years. our winters more or less harsh .. varroa (enemies of bees, a kind of flea or tick which infests colonies.) since last year there is the small beetle of the hive which has arrived which considerably weakens the colonies. ) this year has been particularly good despite everything but we are far from the scores we had 15-20 years ago. the losses are considerable anyway. each year is a major challenge to maintain the herd.
when you love it, throw a suit! seriously it takes a basic training you can not start the same in beekeeping.
the workers will make a larger cell in which the queen lays a female egg (the queen has the ability to determine the sex at lay by fertilizing or not the egg). the nurses will feed the larva with royal jelly which is richer in fat which allows the bee to develop its ovaries (hence the larger abdomen).
within 3 to 5 years
i try somehow to admire their point of view but it seems that i am unable to sink my head so deep in my rear end.
i have no problem accepting that a person refuses to be vaccinated. everyone has their own reasons. someone at work suffers from the thought of getting the vaccine. she's terrified of needles. it's sickly ...
my problem is when the person starts making questionable connections to 5g, new world order, population control, and blah-blah-blah. this is my line between the acceptable and the imbecility.
i am wearing a size 15. my shoes are the same size as those in the photo.
to date i have had no ridiculous explanations. nothing medical.
it's still a minority, i expected.
i'm not against the vaccine but ...
i have the biggest needle phobia on the planet, i can't even look at one, it's messing me up😭
i have not had, among other things, that of tetanus, h1n1, hepatitis ...
very good mimi
my grandmother has already had an aneurysm and she is more at risk of having it because the vaccine can cause it (apparently)
the problem is that they don't do this to do good but simply with a more "selfish" perspective.
i am not criticizing those who do not want to be vaccinated as long as our governments do not drag their feet for deconfinement.
i had my first dose of vaccine and have a second appointment in september. but the comment here is really ridiculous.
for any vaccine, it is reasonable to weigh the pros and cons, risks and benefits of the vaccine to see if it is justified to take it. the risk of covid varies widely by age group and by comorbid factor, and therefore the younger and healthier someone is, the lower their risk of the disease, which reduces the benefits of the vaccine. .. and it is far from certain that the risks of the vaccine follow this same curve. in israel, the health ministry concludes that the risks of myocarditis from the pfizer vaccine are greater for healthy young men than for older people, for example.
and it is a fact that we do not have long term data on the safety of vaccines, especially since the vaccines used (messenger rna or viral vector) are the first vaccines of these types used on a large scale on a large scale. human being.
the precautionary principle says that in the absence of data, conservative assumptions should be made (exaggerating the risks and minimizing the benefits).
i don't see why i would insult a healthy young person who judges that the uncertainties about the long-term safety of vaccines are too great to justify the benefits he would derive from them, because covid is not really a problem. risk for him (for a 10-19 year old teenager, since september 1, only 0.25% of diagnosed cases ended in hospitalization and 1 in 40,000 cases ended in death ... and he there are probably a lot of undiagnosed cases in this age group). if he prefers not to take the vaccine, it is a defensive choice.
likewise, if anyone has had covid in the past, [data available] ( (21) 00141-3 / fulltext) shows that the the protection offered by a previous infection is as good, if not better, than that offered by vaccines. if someone with a previous infection chooses not to be vaccinated, that's a very respectable choice.
if someone refuses the vaccines because they don't want a 5g chip or believe it's a conspiracy to sterilize the world's population and thereby reduce it, okay, they're clowns ... but he's quite possible for someone to refuse the vaccine on reasonable and scientific grounds. the obsession with vaccinating everyone strikes me as just as worse and no more science-based and fact-based than the primary antivaxx.
witch shoes?
ch, tun cave..after 4 vaccinations, i'm still afraid of the unvaccinated, it's stronger than me. it's not my fault, thinking it over has never been my strong suit. so i'm going to spend the whole summer insulting the unvaccinated (like 1 in 4 people).
i lied to get my 10 doses. we are never sure of anything today.
bro me my goal is to make the most victims like in plague inc.
there are some who are right and it is none of your business whether someone decides to get the vaccine or not.
[wow, you're racist.] ( -vaccine-report)
(no, not really, but read this)
i said the same i am not anti vaccine but me to be injected with something bohemian experimental nope no thank you for me have fun guys
the clowns are those who serve as guinea pigs in the pharmaceutical industry
try in a wall.
for some, it's in the sand. try it! lol
i sometimes wonder if they even have a head ...
there are like 15 people in qc who make the connection with 5g, and 100,000 who congratulate themselves on finding this cellar.
it's right there. i have this and an undiagnosed gastrointestinal disorder which is finally starting to stabilize after 2 years. i have never had any breathing problems. i will take my chances against covid to avoid the risk of this gastrointestinal disorder degenerating to the point where i am unable to eat again. it pisses me off to see people taking free shots and even suggesting that people who don't get vaccinated shouldn't be able to live in society. it's called respect, and it goes both ways. i do not recommend to anyone who wants to be vaccinated (my girlfriend is, i congratulated her), except that it is a very personal choice. a vaccine cannot be undone, so you have to understand that. because of this, there are 1001 reasons not to get vaccinated other than the many plots that the conspirators cite. thank you for coming to me ted talk.
ahhhhhhhhh!
sideshow bob!
how did you get the tag vive le québec libre tabarnak below your name
the medical explanation is that there are a lot of people who are naturally paranoid.
you mustn't have looked far. i have been vaccinated and yet it is not difficult to understand why some would have concerns or would decide that the risk is too high according to them.
but we prefer to create memes and about the very few fools who will talk about 5g than to understand those who have thought about it and come to a different conclusion.
it is experimental
i'm sure you could get through it, i hate bites too. =)
i passed out and threw up when i tested my first child for blood. fortunately, a vaccine is much less worse.
my motivation being that i could pick myself up with much worse than a simple bite if i caught covid. it avoids the worst!
i know that a phobia cannot be controlled but the needle is so thin that it is practically without any sensation. barely a mini pinch. it could almost be a discovery for you… “wow was that just that? maybe the other needles are just that too ”.
> hepatitis
if you ever travel, this is probably the worst vaccine to not have (it's one for a / b + booster 6 months later) .. i have an aunt who caught it in south africa and she did not make sarafi .. hotel fancy etc. she almost died of it, her liver practically destroyed, jaundice etc. horrible.
the lady was very nice. she saw that i was a little nervous she told me not to watch the injection and was talking at the same time. the staff who do the vaccines are used to it.
there are vaccinators who are much better than others so you won't notice. but i absolutely understand your fear. after that, are you no longer afraid of covid or needles. its the only question you need to ask yourself.
the risks are not the same for all vaccines. mrnas appear to be less risky.
also, the risk of aneurysm is hundreds of times higher if she catches covid. his risk of death or complications as well.
covid-19 is not about to go away. globally, the virus is very present and will be part of our life for several years.
one is to believe that legault does not believe in the effectiveness of the vaccine.
since it affects deconfinement, yes, that's our business unfortunately.
> there are some who have their reason
completely agree, some have real medical conditions that prevent them from getting the vaccine.
> it is none of your business whether or not someone decides to get the vaccine.
completely disagree, the vaccination rate is a major indicator in deconfinement + collective immunity goes through vaccination + they stress the health system for nothing.
it's my business when it comes to public health and mine at the same time.
> and it's none of your business whether or not someone decides to get the vaccine.
except no.
the vaccine is useful if enough people take it. so yeah, it matters to you who people take it or not. your personal health and safety is greatly influenced by the individual choices of others,
and hell, i'm gonna have to say it ...
we live in a society.
and it comes with responsibilities, restrictions on your individual freedoms and taxes. in return, you receive security, health and education services, access to a range of services, including thousands of km of infrastructure and greater ease of living.
if you don't want to live in society, make yourself a loincloth in hareskin pi go try you in the woods my little lumberjack.
the article is nice.
the link text, less.
considering this is the first covid 19 pandemic, by definition everything is pretty much experimental. spoiler alert, the first time you die will be experimental for you, too.
with over a billion doses administered, we're pretty sure it's working there, what are you waiting for? at 5 billion doses you will be satisfied?
what is this reflection based on?
what is your field of expertise or your knowledge in science that allows you to say that this virus is boboche and / or experimental?
it's okay to have an opinion, now you have to be able to support it with arguments and no, the length of time it took for the vaccine to see the light of day, that does not make it "boboche" or "experimental".
we create new influenza vaccines annually and they are designed in a few weeks ... it has already been explained at length what helps to get a vaccine quickly ..
what is missing / what would it take different for you to consider taking a vaccine?
> get injected with something bohemian
vaccines have been around for 200 years. just because it's experimental doesn't mean they're shady substances ... it's still a vaccine. we have standards. we are in 2021 not in 1308.
> something booche experimental
1. it's not experimental
2. millions of people have taken the vaccine and it has been proven to work. it's not boboche, it's your reflection that is boboche.
the other choice is to serve as a guinea pig for a virus made in a chinese laboratory that inadvertently escaped and that the government wanted to hide from the public. we do not know the long term consequences except that we can already say that 10% of the world who catch it have health problems more than 6 months later.
[
[
it would take me something to deactivate it and protect myself from this virus done in the lab as quickly as possible.
(contrattaque with the same way of thinking)
[deleted]
clowns make people laugh.
you made me laugh.
you must be a clown.
i remember quebec
it has bin smat
clearly a phil collins fan
he's a little confused but he's got the spirit
it's the grapes in south park
memberberries
the ultimate qc troll
don't worry, with the color of your car we won't forget you 🤮
infrared member?
the 21st days of september ...
ge me soovien from the provinces of kébec
gough whitlam, c'est toi?
> in response to sir winston turnbull shouting in parliament: “i am a country member”
> “i remember,” replied whitlam, to applause from both sides of the aisle.
get this man a throne. he is now the king of quebec. anglophones will now refer to him just simply as roy. french expats, do worry. we now have a king.
i am mem brrrrrrrr?
ba-de-ya
and remembre.
a new transplant recipient?
noooo it's "i remember" !!
lol rmembr go brrrr
lmao yeah my dad joke a little bit about that like what do you remember anyways? is there really something specific that your car plate motto is talking about, anyways?
the irony
fan of deadmau5 maybe?
lol!
tokébekicite
it’col2si
r/southpark
pepperidge farms?
yo law 101 in french 😡😡😡😡
infrared member
pepperidge farms remembers....
[do you remember when we were french](
when an english speaker tries to be québécois
i suviens the kwabek
it's not "jay may suveehayne"!
or the month of september
be-dou be-dou be-dou be-dou psshhht
oh! i 'member!
either that or pepperidge farm, one or the other!
the berries
it changes from white / gray / black and dark red
beautiful golden / dark yellow stun i find. jtanné dla 158th civic black and kona white.
the color is magnificent. rageu
he owns shares in flir systems
i'm proud of you
in russia, country dis-members you
or from bob marley
oh! reminds me!
looks like banana republic started building cars without telling us.
aw merci
or from november 5
we never heard from the guy who was leaving for the south in march and who didn't give a damn about getting stuck there.
sometimes i tell myself that he probably did well ...
u / jeephee with its post reminds me of the cantonese proverb:
"cantonese that we are for life!"
[deleted]
and that's how the pandemics continue.
at my school, we learned that some families were leaving for the south during the christmas holidays.
[deleted]
yes, the same, it is not forbidden to smoke, drink like a drunkard, or insist on traveling in the midst of a global pandemic. it's just proof of bad judgment, which i have the right to condemn publicly. these "snowbirds" should be put to shame when their comfortable little habits put others in danger.
the world is pretty bad in this thread ...
i can tell you that covid is not controlled in this part of mexico. you're gonna have a bad time.
much better in quebec. i like winter.
grabbing the covid is priceless! for everything else there is familiprix!
holy shit the top photo these in my town! in val-d'or yeet.
it's all the stupidity of the thing, we could all go to party at 40 in vermont they wouldn't mind a lot.
hmmm suddenly it's tempting. it's been a while since i drank an extra pina colada. (i miss the bar of my youth which sold them 2 piasses on friday evening)
welcome to legault city
to say that if we had done this quarantine properly we would not be there 🤡
i would be too scared that the borders would be closed because of an increase in cases!
🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
ah yes mexico is doing so much better than canada
if he's retired or on the verge of dying .... i would say so hehe ...
we should take away their citizenship, thick ones like that ...
if you're the type to go on a trip in the midst of a global pandemic, you probably don't care.
for everyone who works from home, it's not the end of the world not to go out for 14 days and you don't even have to make that count in your vacation.
i work from home, the main difference it would make would be maybe to have groceries delivered once if i forgot to fill my freezer ahead of time. i spent 3 weeks without going out in late march early april, by choice, when i was still relying on legault's press conferences rather than on scientific literature. it's easy when you have a big freezer.
ten days * in the absence of symptoms (new cdc recommendations), seven days with a test done on d5 or d6.
*
[deleted]
what is the goal of keeping quarantine, there is covid all over quebec, why do we continue to piss off travelers?
same inertia as the terrorist's stupidity osti with liquid explosives which forces us to throw away our bottles before going through security at the airport? (not all because airports and airlines are lining their pockets because of this)
thanks to the spoiled babies who are not screwed to respect others ...
you're dry if you think we can really stop the pandemic
i just spoke to my chummy pencil shooter in an airline company, he also confirmed to me that the planes to the south and to europe are full of tourists.
have you seen the rates there?
all these people are going to bring us new strains of the virus caught there or during the trip.
people are encouraged to travel in the midst of a pandemic.
the fact that our prime minister is a co-founder of air transat has nothing to do with that. just like the fact that the sport he practices twice a week is one of the only activities allowed.
all decisions from the start are taken behind closed doors on a corner of the table between a charlatan and an accountant overwhelmed by events.
worse, the orange zone turns red quite quickly.
imagine blaming a guy for life
the worst is that if you go on the thread of the parties of nowell, you will see a criss of gangs who admit no longer following the recommendations and who will gather the same.
hard to follow in esti.
must have something to do with the fact that the world is in a pandemic because of careless travelers?
serious spa i'm going to drink enough to kill the virusse.
no it's mastercard!
we find everything ... even the covid
the land border is still closed, right?
vermont has a mandatory 14-day quarantine for non-essential travelers.
you really have no sense of logic if you think we can stop this "pandemic" so easily
the only kind of quarantine that can work would be total isolation from absolutely everyone, and unless there is a real danger to the survival of the healthy world, no one will accept that. half-isolating the world but still giving them freedom and opening / closing everything nonstop can hardly slow the propagation, but an exponential curve of propagation remains exponential
sweden have made no containment, they have only established a better sanitation system and they have fewer deaths in%. let go of the tv that tells you that the government we currently have knows absolutely everything as magical beings because the media are subsidized by them
as if by chance as soon as you take out what are called arguments in front of a very docile citizen like you you suddenly become deaf or blind lol
they cannot prevent canadian citizens from returning to the country.
but it might be rough to find a flight.
well, as long as you live with travel restrictions, confinement and other troubles, you might as well get pissed off elsewhere than in december in quebec.
there's how it goes in the ciudad de mexico then there's how it goes in cancun.
chemical castration also right?
hey it's up to the government to put laws, there we punish those who can not leave and who can not do quarantine by telecommuting
it's like going to a restaurant in an orange zone, it's not illegal.
drinking, smoking, it's not illegal but not recommended like changing the area to go in the south
glad he left me.
they have to pay their taxes all their life. fuck you
whatever appears that the federal government is quite a bit about respecting the quarantine, according to friends who had to do so: reports, calls and in-person interviews.
🇫🇷 * you know, in canada it's so cold that quebecers have three words for ice cream. *
ice
it's ice cream
i imagine that's what happens when you haven't seen a lot of ice cream in your life ...
yes, except for the mirror
ice cream
🎶 ice cream, sweet lemonade, tell me the name of your ca-va-lier .... a ... b ... 🎶
very bad glace
i think sometimes they'll say ice cream for a showcase too.
sophie is an ice cube.
napoleon in bill & ted confirms. "ice cream! a stick!"
so it's the same word.
ice skating rink.
qc: ice
en: ice rink
un bon bin qi ling
never replace my ice cream !!!
ggglllaaaccceee
ggglllaaaccceee
also ice cubes for us = ice cubes for them.
black ice
france is one of the countries which uses the most anglicism in the world my god that they cannot speak french as they claim xd
even the cousins practice french bashing assiduously… we love you anyway!
quebec is not real
wait and see how much we have for the snow ...
ice
r / icestandingup
ice cream
as long as it's not the ciborium of "frozen dessert" not good
and i'm not talking about vegan stuff, that's cool.
this is the breyers style fake ice cream with the super long ingredient list, that's not my place.
cream
allasse cream
speaking of ice cream, does lambert ice cream still exist? my grandmother bought this but i haven't seen any in years.
yep that's true.
even quebec ice cream is a sorbet in france. sometimes people make a difference.
i have always known "ice cream, sweet lemonade ..."
nan hahaha
we don't give up our place either
slosh, snow, white mustard, mud, sticky snow, crazy snow ... do you miss it?
ice
baby
ice cream baby!
vanilla
ice cream or creummolle
yeah, or nestle. their host of "modified milk ingredients" or something.
you will notice: even nestle's "real cream" contains this taint. they only put enough real cream so that there is more of it, so that they can write "the real cream"
majority coaticook!
good frozen vanilla margarine, hmmmmmmmm!
or the "cone" at mcdo
eh?? a sorbet and ice cream are two different desserts. the sorbet is made from fruit.
yes, otherwise the rhyme does not work.
if that happens in a certain region of rance ... we have to admit that the french is much more applied towards you
powder, powder ... i'm sure there are still a few missing ...
hare skin!
[deleted]
why had i never heard of it? are you telling me that i lived 35 years without ever having tasted the best poutine in quebec, therefore in the world? this is a fu * king tragedy ...
in any case, congratulations fromagerie victoria!
i tried one today. cheese is indeed hard to beat, i rarely hear such a clear squeak.
congratulations to fromagerie victoria. i imagine i have more chances of winning the gift card than the $ 70,000,000 in lotto max.
i have never tasted victoria, surely i should go try it soon in st jerome
gib poutine plz sir
everyone knows that the best poutine is the one you ate in the snack bar on the side of the road 3 years ago but you have never been able to find it.
pepper sauce ftw
fuck, there's not even juceps, the og poutine in drummond. such bullshit.
where is fromagerie victoria?
i have never been to the victoria cheese dairy yet ... is it time for a roadtrip maybe?
nice job fromagerie victoria
yay! my favorite poutine from the list won!
i'm going to eat one tomorrow to celebrate!
wouldn't mind going to taste that to be able to judge!
the free poutine? bin kin that i will comment on
clearly to try!
looks like i'm gonna have to try it
victoria is clearly by far the best poutine in quebec. i live in montreal and it beats the ice cream, victo cheese is simply incredibly good and fresh.
hey i voted for the other! but hey, i want to try it.
i am commenting because i would like to taste the poutine thank you
the cheese is excellent but the fries are disgusting.
[deleted]
ohhh yesss for the big chunks of cheese. next weekend i try 1 italian
a legend is born.
me who gave my meager vote for victoria: i'm doing my part!
in honor of the last fighters, i'm going to sacrifice myself and eat a poutine at each of the two!
putin!
well done winner
down to try the poutiine!
oh yesss
wait, is it fromagerie victoria and not you offering the $ 40? nice!
(don't put me in the contest, there aren't any close to me)
20 minutes from home, i won't have the choice to try this magnificence!
oh yeah !
bravo
i've never had the chance to taste it but i'll give it a try when i get the chance.
40 $ please
with "cheese factory" in the name, seems to me that you should leave with a head start
well done to the champion!
i wouldn't say no to that. thanks for the opportunity!
a deserved victory
i'll have to go try the winning poutine!
remark :)
it is true that their poutine is good! in confinement, we bought their kit to make it at home… not bad either!
can't wait to try it with the $ 40 gift card i'm about to win !!
i've never eaten poutine from victoria! i would like!
it is true that at victoria it is good at bine crime.
i'm hungry pi chui poor
breakfast poutine 🍳
well listen, i will not be shy! good poutine, we would be crazy to do without it!
my kind of competition!
degrees
at least that's québécois. all countries have cats, but not all countries have frontenac chateaux!
my aunt shoots, reads, reads
it would be nice to find one like it in hd for my wallpaper.
instead of hogward, it's malâïse
cat-skin, it's a beautiful photo
i imagine it's not your water cat either ...
lucky i can see it from my school!
ma tantirelirelire-uh.
another sight, it was 8 ° celsius.
as an exile from quebec, pu capab of the castle osti. at some point you become like immune i guess worse you just hate the cries of turiss. at least you can totally live your life arranging to never go inside the walls, even working on the hill.
i'm afraid of heights( lol)
seriously, i do not understand why in 2021 the world which posts the château frontenac does not give the temperature ...
if this photo is taken recently. we can deduce that it is around 5 a.m. with the may * chilly * that we have i can say that it is probably between 8 and 11 degrees celcius.
they are quebec cats!
funded by wicked anglos, appointed by an american architect who culturally appropriated the style of 17th century french castles.
a colonized castle!
/s
psq gang
i know right? it's kind of super essential as an info to really appreciate our castle.
temperature: * cozy *.
since when has the sun been rising in the west?
everything ... is explained 🤯
jnd gang
i need to know if he's majority or marissal, too.
how am i supposed to sleep !?
should ask winnie the poo
2 steamed and coleslaw
cheese omelette
english speakers like “seal”
pronounced poo-t'sin
he’s a keeper.
what is the title of this painting?
or you say "damn"
"people who speak french have so much charisma"
the poutine is good.
poutain
creamy or traditional
did you take two rotteux pi an average small
2 all-dress no relish
to the seals!
how beautiful the seal is 🦭
no we love when you translate "j'aime le bonheur" i like happiness.
my best is "i speak english, but i french very well."
what the seal
i am an english speaker, and it is very true.
he is a keeper.
keep your ass in it, solid
putin. the language of love.
imaginary contemplation of poutine
1763
jean du pays
is not it?
traditional.
as the beatles said : *a penis is a warm gun, yes it is!*
mdr
isssh the creamer it does not just fill the belly, it fills the heart.
435 degrees
i love!
really, all that's missing is your signature! watercolor?
wow, that's beautiful! it'll be fine on the fridge.
i ask myself the question like that. how long will it take for the roof to turn green again?
it's well drawn 👍
you have a lot of talent !!
really cool!! i like the style
it's nice
i like the colors.
super cool
i like the style and the colors!
very pretty 🤯
no natas / portuguese tartlette, no party 😋
it's cool, good job!
ftfy you skated the château frontenac
thank you!
yeah! i put it on after i took the picture.
haha mine or yours?
if i made myself at the same time or they replaced the roof of the jesù in montreal ... about 4 months
on the web? in my opinion never.
thank you! ☺️
thank you! you're so kind!
clearly you never took drawing lessons, it wasn't a sketch
we may have a new design in 6 to 12 months!
i have a baccalaureate in design. if i call it a skit, it's a skit.
we want an update!
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
i'm sorry, but merriam webster and larousse would like to say otherwise.
definition of sketch
 (entry 1 of 2)
1a: a rough drawing representing the chief features of an object or scene and often made as a preliminary study
sketch nf
first form, treated in broad strokes and generally in reduced dimensions ...
voila, do you want more? jmen say that you think you're superior because of your baccalaureate, but that doesn't make you right
i'm not the other commentator, but “a rough drawing representing the chief features of an object or scene” describes the watercolor featured in the post quite a bit. i mean “a rough drawing” is not necessarily pejorative and that is clearly it. so according to this definition it is indeed a sketch. the definition of sketch is also definitely appropriate, it is a first form treated in broad strokes, only the artist stopped on this form. it remains a sketch.
edit: it's a sketch / sketch on which we put color. that's not a bad description.
it seems to me that there are not so many details in a sketch. you put in just enough to allow you to do more elaborate work when you have more time.
putting all the joints of all the roofs, all the windows and their style is much more than indicating the 'chief features'.
a sketch would have not super hot lines and proportions all the time, how many sketches do you see with color? it exists but it is not badly rare. no one does sketches with marker, sketches c a draft, c made to be erased, can never erase that. ergo, not a sketch
edit: but you can't deny that thread's op is a moron arrogant screech
in addition in a sketch we use an erasable material in case of error, such as a draft text, but here he made the lines in marker, it is not erased that
it depends on the subject and what you are looking to accomplish. what tells me it's a sketch is that you can clearly see the broad strokes freehand, you can see that the artist is trying to capture the form rather than the exactness of the lines. the lines are superimposed, it is not neat, it is the first draft, if he returned to his first sketch it is only to support certain lines whose line was not precise enough. it's a subject with a lot of details it's normal to have some accuracy like there are 5 windows here, tac tac tac tac i put my 5 windows. especially knowing that you do not necessarily intend to come back and redo your image based on your first sketch, you will make sure to have a sketch that includes as many details as possible and even then the artist here does not. everything captured.
it's also quite correct, it's part of the charm of the work. i don't know why the other commentator needed to say ftfy, the author of the post says he drew the chateau frontenac, a sketch / sketch is also a drawing.
hmm, the lines and proportions of this drawing are just not hot all the time as you say and that's what tells me it's his first draft. if you know that you are going to do a watercolor afterwards and your style is to do with a pen then why not do your sketch with a pen? the fact that there is color does not change that the lines are those of a first draft. i agree his intervention was useless, i do not understand his need for ftfy, but it remains that to say that it is a sketch is not wrong either. however, that doesn't make the work any less charming.
edit: clearly the artist here knows what he's doing, he's talented so his sketch doesn't have to look like a rough draft it can be very neat.
but it depends, we literally have no info on if it was the final version and if there was a real sketch before, there are plenty of marvel and dc comic artists who have drawings in the same style as op, we still call that sketches , they went there before with graphite and then we added the black lines with the pen and the color after. a sketch will not have as many details as this op put in it, all the roof lines, all the windows, etc.
your sketch can have a lot of details if you don't think about going back to it. personally what makes me say that this is his first draft is that he or she could have taken the time to correct certain lines which are superimposed if it was only ink on his original graphite lines also his lines. are very thin at times and you can see that there is a recovery when the line was not assured. look, it's not impossible that he went back to it and added details, but it just becomes a matter of pedantry at this point. i appreciate the work and personally if i had done it i would have no problem calling it a sketch.
well yes, for success, you must always be polite and say "scuse" me.
the question is not what sucks, but what gets sucked ...
yes, i find it excellent x)
sucking standing up is what getting drette
*harvey weinstein entered the chat*
you have to suck your bosses all your life to get sucked by your employees afterwards
ah yes, the good ole s u c c
tu suce tu ou tu cross yinke?
edit: typo
excellent joke lmao
[great suce](
congratulations, i just spit out my sip of coke through my nose.
"-other suce la tony
-[toé t'a suce, plus.](
i you dead 🤣🤣🤣
success?
a big job is like a join, the more you suck the further you go!
suck the success
that's why we say success
mouth
the scarlet maid would be like: eye-sucker ...
he or she wants to suck something but doesn't want to say it clearly. suddenly, the person sends hidden messages.
i'm sick, i thought it was sus
u/repostsleuthbot
me who thought it was wasd ...
can’t spell success without succ.
it takes a serious accent, how did you do it with the proposed keyboard?
e c u s
😂
suck or be sucked, that is the question
zzzzzip
sucking drette is what to stand up
\ * put his cat in the shelter \ *
the key to success is to be paid in ecus.
unless you're a gay man because that just gives you a recurring answer like "yes"
a beautiful subject for jean-claude labrecque
* drette;)
gays are therefore superior beings revolutionizing modern philosophy.
or a very flexible man.
at gnome height, fly height
they defy the laws of logic.
yes
i heard that if you break the ribs it works
bernard's big mistake here: when it is fret, you must not neglect the wearing of the headgear.
besides, he had the same mantle as his meme of: "i am once again asking for your financial support". it must be comfortable lol
the best way to get a layer of sweat that will remain trapped between your laundry and your skin which will then allow your body to lose its heat faster despite the thickness of your coat 😎
i have the impression that he is going to have freight, can someone add a ponpon to him?
top quality! bernie knew there would be an outage this morning!
i cant see any coton ouaté
comfy bernie ™️
[deleted]
he knows how to not feel the bern of the cold
oh, the pretty "granola" mittens!
bernard adamus is easily recognizable.
if this guy had become president, he would have been eaten alive by putin and jinping.
i am here for the sole purpose of isolating myself from american politics ... please ...
yer correct, his brain is seething with enough fervor to keep his scalp warm.
as colbert said: bernie, don't you know that you lose 99% of your heat through your 1%?
found is the [burton edgecomb 3-in-1 in gore-tex] coat ( -down-jacket / w19-205271.html? color = 20527100020). it looks like a great coat, unfortunately sold out.
preferably the yellow-orange toque marked fuckyou from the drawing competition
it's his mittens, apparently it's des coton ouate recycler.
eille, do you fret, are you good in your knitted gloves?
r/thesamejoke :p
in soviet russia, poutine eats you
[deleted]
"i come on the internet to isolate myself from something"
try a chalet without a network or budgeted electricity, we are not your safe space friends
you don't have control over what others post, but you do have control over your participation and your reactions.
and then, even without recognizing bernie, we can understand the same ... it's very unpolitical
you ... do you use the internet and social networks not to hear about what's going on on the planet?
states have just got rid of one of the worst - if not the worst - president in their history and a large part of the planet is rejoicing for them - including us. yesterday's inauguration was historic. we're all coming out of a bad year and things are murky and not easy at the moment. just because there are a lot of people in this sub who are happy doesn't mean that r / quebec will turn into r / uspoli. it's the honeymoon now. in a week, we will talk about it a lot less.
at this point, it's a simple bernie meme, i would hardly call it a political meme
the only political thing in this same is bernie sanders
colbert is a genius
it's no secret why it's sold out first
at least we can't see his watch!
no, it's more r / ontheledgeandshit
bernie the comnunisse!
oh yeah, maybe well haha
this is not the first time that i have made this kind of comment but: i never understood what the idea of going to find a job 40 km from home / settling 40 km away of his job.
edit: 20 round trip indeed, it is less worse.
> seal that
i have never encountered this expression. (i'm scottish.) what does it mean? is the word "seal" a homophone?
if you have been able to work from home for almost 2 years, why would you have to go back to the office? it has no impact on the workers, i am convinced that the idea of being physically in an office is only motivated by the managers who have to justify their existence. without being able to do micromanaging directly behind someone, they have nothing to do.
why is teleworking so despised?
i challenge a single company that can prove that telecommuting affects productivity.
i have no doubts that if teleworking was so negative, companies would have found a way to accommodate themselves or would be back in the office long before.
yes, there are people who can't wait to go to the office. leave them! you have to pay the rent for something! but there are so many other solutions than "let's go backwards"
i am vaccinated but i refuse to share this information with my boss for this reason - if they think i am not vaccinated we stay with us
long live teleworking. i sympathize, but long live teleworking in esti.
at the federal level, we have no plan to return to the office by 2022 ... and we have just scolded all the antivaxx dewors 😂
never understood why being anti-vaxx and spreading the virus unnecessarily in the workplace was "a right", but that asked not to be in contact at work with virus propagators (anti-vaxx) was not.
if they can spread a very contagious and possibly fatal virus, why do i have to put up with them?
can i ask you what field you work in?
useful idiocy.
good little post not toxic for all that.
okay, that makes teleworking easier, but what pisses off is that it is still these covidiots who tip the decisional balance. they should not be considered and kicked out immediately for not respecting basic sanitary rules. fuck these osti there!
antivaccines, it's pejorative. today, we say pro-covid.
thanks to the anti vax, i was able to have a ski pass that looks good in bromont, thank you very much!
we must take the positive where we can find it.
according to the basic laws of human stupidity, these two would fall into the rare category of "morons" who inflict a net loss on themselves while providing a benefit to others.
are you ironic? i wouldn't like to do 40km every morning either. thanks to had i guess.
we should do as in austria and confine people who are not immune.
no immunization? you stay at home. period. you just have the right to go to the grocery store and the pharmacy and essential shops.
random question: i pooped in my panties, can you help me?
at some point gonna have to stop trying to stop living
i am going crazy working from home. for safety reasons i have to work in my basement in a closed room with no windows and after almost two years of that i really have cabin fever. in addition to sharing my space 24/7 with my boyfriend, our couple rush because we see it all the time.
i have the impression to live like the day of the groundhog, because there is nothing more that makes my day unique. my sanity has taken a hit and i find myself constantly depressed.
it makes me laugh as soon as someone is unvaccinated, it's an antivax.
are you all of the world's winning who want them to lose their jobs, block their health care and exile them ..?
i find quebec 2021 quite special.
you see it is you who is "thick", it is your boss who made the decision, not the two "thick" antivaccines. if you are confident in your vaccine, why be afraid of the unvaccinated?
> me neither, i'm not interested in traveling 40 km / day
i edited this for you.
but, seriously, the lack of social with telecommuting is really a problem, imho.
you don't like your boss, you don't like your colleagues
the mask does not protect against coconut. then the 2 thick ones have, it seems to me, still the right to choose the medical treatments which they want or not to take.
do you live 40km from your job? 🤔 😳
it's good that you share your moods.
merci aux antvaccins 🤡
let go of the news a little dull ... chalice
[deleted]
what are the antivaxes for?
no matter how much you call them idiots, they still argued that it is not necessary for you to come back to the office or that it was not possible or reasonable for them because of the current rules.
otherwise, you would have entered the force office for no good reason. it shows that asserting your interests is good, right ?.
after a few years, i was totally overwhelmed with living in montreal, so i came back to my hometown on the south shore. but i love my job and i have a lot more reasons to stay than to leave.
at least i can telework regularly
i'm not 40km away either, but 20 or 40 is the same as once in montreal it is the worst.
what i'm going to say here is my opinion.
when you live on your own, it's easy to make decisions, move next to work, look for work near home.
but after you've started a family, you have to compromise.
i work for a company that was located in the west of the island and a few years ago they moved to the north shore. if i move near my work, we will be far from the work of my spouse who is in côte-des-neiges. if she quits her job, she loses all her seniority (she works in the health network) and will have to look for a fresh start with shitty schedules.
if i quit my job in the factory, i cut my salary in half, since your experience has no value when you change jobs.
for my son, if i move to laval or further north, i have to look for schools with specialized classes, because he is asd. i discovered that some municipalities do not have specialized classes and we integrate children with asd into regular classes, which is not always the best choice.
so, like i said, when you're a family, the choices aren't that simple.
holy peace. i knew someone who did 1:15 to go 1:15 back every day to go to work, yes it's intense we will tell each other, except that he in the evening when he returned home, he returned to his new house, up to date stuck on the water with the same mortgage that people who work 5km from the job pay for a 4 1/2 marde no parking. each his life, each his choice
by passing this sub makes me laugh, the downvote this makes go at full speed here lol.
i saved $ 100,000 off the price of my house and have a lot 3 times the size i would have had in town. it's okay with the idea, i'm not a millionaire.
i never understood what the idea of forcing the world to go to a badly designed office to do a job that is done very well remotely.
it's never an "idea", life takes us to certain places, and with the work of the spouses, the school of the children, the affordability of certain neighborhoods and the need for space, it is easier to change of job than to change house
are you from montreal? in the region, driving 20-40 kilometers to get to work is a lot less rare than in your area.
because it is quite impossible in a couple to follow the geography of your jobs, when everyone will on average change jobs 5 times in a career, in addition to having to add to the equation the distance from quality schools to your family. especially since not all types of jobs are available within a radius of action around your house. ex: a couple with one who has a job in a hospital and the other who is professional in an office.
in addition, 20km is not very long, we are talking downtown to laval or pointe-claire see pointes-aux-trembles.
so you do your best, you choose strategically for one or the other in the couple, but you are not going to move every time.
similarly, if you choose to settle away from your job, to enjoy the joys of the suburbs or whatever, you can not complain about the time it takes you to go to the job
> i never understood what the idea of going to find a job 40 km from home / settling 40 km from your job.
neither do i.
when i started the job about 9 months ago, it was 100% telecommuting. the mandate was to end about 1 month ago, but we fell behind, and we are falling on the gradual return.
i imagine you are an urban man? in my case i live in the city. i find my current job, 7 km from home, is too far away. fortunately i have only set foot there 5 times since i was employed there (covid!) but honestly if i found one within two km i would do so so that i could walk instead of taking the bike, bus, metro, whatever. having grown up in the suburbs and had to drive to cégep and the university every day, i promised myself that i would never never ever commute by car. never.
i plead guilty. i work 40 km from home ... i left the island because i had an opportunity to become an owner. currently, since the rem has not yet destroyed metropolitan public transit, i can make the trip in about 1h10.
when i was still in montreal, my home was 14 km from my current job and the trip would take about 50 minutes.
in other words, for about 40 minutes per day and $ 100 more per month, i went from paying a landlord who did not do too much maintenance to having my own house.
it is surely a compromise between the location of the spouse's work, real estate prices etc ...
the office is 100km from my home. i go there once a month sometimes every two months. i am a technician on the road and i have nothing to do there.
people want a regional cost of living with a city salary.
obviously, all this has been turned upside down with the covid and no longer always applies (price of housing, opening to remote, etc.).
i also don't understand. why have you organized your life around something you hate? i mean vla 18 months there was no solution to this your commute. i do not understand what would be so terrible to return if you had to, you had chosen this lifestyle in theory forever?
if you are poor (or even middle class but under 25) and you understand the concept that real estate is a mandatory investment for your financial health. you realize that in addition to the overpriced additional apartments in the city, the houses you can buy are all 40 km + from the city.
financial health> 30 minutes of cars per day
the if you are rich or very supervised by your parents. you don't care much about financial health or not. so your comment seems a little naive to me
i am 30 km from my job lol
i live 50 km from my job.
when we bought our house, we bought it because we love our city, we know it well, all our friends are there, etc.
also because my boyfriend doesn't drive, and he can bike to work.
sometimes in winter i tell myself that i would like to go closer to my work, but otherwise the 45 minutes of driving allows me to have time for myself, time to disconnect from the job before arriving at the house, etc.
calisse that it makes me laugh sometimes.
personality x is racist online and is from quebec: i told you quebeckers were all racist fucks !!! not surprising !!!
personnalité x est raciste et canadienne: just a minority of canadians think like this, not all canadians!!!!
a family died in an islamophobic attack and your first reaction is to self-flag as a victim. it's really low.
did you miss something? are we blamed for the attack?
notwithstanding, bill 21 remains a precedent in canada popular in some conservative circles which legitimizes islamophobia.
people here forgot bissonnette
now, now, let's not bicker.  both provinces can be racist at the same time.
as loco locass says so well in the censorship of the scaffold:
"all that irritates me, especially since we quickly forget that in ontario. the beaches were one day forbidden to jews, to dogs, and worse to niggas."
wait, are you saying multiculturalism is responsible for the hate crime in question?
in times of crisis, we go back to our good old habits in the rest of canada, namely how to bashing quebec with anything and everything.
it remains the glue of canada.
nice, now i may need to think about quebec racism.
a child flicks me on the bus and it really pisses me off. in the neighboring province, someone is breaking a leg. should i let the kid peck me ad libidum because, well at least he's not breaking my leg? well no, i tell him to stop anyway!
yes premeditated murder is worse than law 21, i don't think anyone disagrees with that. that does not prevent that we can multi-task and fight against both.
am i the only one who thinks that yesterday's terrorist act is vile and cowardly while agreeing that no religion should be represented by the state?
did you really make this tragedy about yourself?
i try to understand. in the first two boxes, are we saying that multiculturalism is at the origin of the attack? if so, i would like someone to explain to me why this is not such a dubious connection as the one denounced in the third box.
moreover, the problem is that this does not allow us to return to the real problem of islamophobia in both ontario and quebec.
fuck bill 21, but also fuck to point the finger at quebec the second we commit a hate crime in the roc.
i have yet to see anyone say that the crime in ontario wasn't racist, or that racism doesn't exist in ontario. there is an obvious difference between types of racism that are systemic and facilitated by the government however and those done by individual action. nor is it impossible for racism to be on levels. you know about levels right? so like, lets take the concept of stealing - stealing is stealing sure, but there are levels too it - stealing a car is still theft as is stealing a child, but one is far more drastic and needs to be dealt with in the immediate. thats not to say that stealing the car isn't a big thing, it is, but when conveniently placed next to stealing a child it seems (obviously) like much less of a big deal.
but what a shit meme
this thread is brigaded.
yeah, but law 21 is racist like a meme ....
misuse of the template and words but i understand the background
there's no more racist than an englishman. they hate each other to death if you come from another city. checker the redneck white americans and the kkk are all british descendants. frogs and frenchies are called by the english. the assimilation attempts were made by the english and he is still trying.
our well-meaning friends across the outaouais draw the same parallel: 
can you just get out of this country
i am french canadian outside quebec and i have to tell you that it is only a “woke” vocal minority that says that. the majority, franco and anglo, are more rational than that.
i fully support bill 21
reddit has made me so sovereignist. i would even be ready to wage a war of independence like the americans did if necessary.
we are so incompatible. it just doesn't make sense that we're together.
*sorry its not you... actually it is*
the first box has as much no connection with the second as the second with the third 🤷‍♂️
what is the evidence that this was a hate crime, and not just a crime? i am curious about the distinction. is it the fact that the victims were muslim, or is there really evidence of hatred / racism?
sorry, i don't listen to the news or the tv.
n / a to [u / boubou33] (
in english please. i do not speak french :(
true screeching.
any english speakers? this says somethingn about ontario (i think) but i dont really know french 😞
these so perfect as a plan. you can just be racist against white people now. fake they guarantee that the language keeps us dividing and they throw more insults on fire which is seen as an attack from the 2 sides. it's going to keep the world busy and they'll even feel a lot, these okay to be racist against white people ...
ayoye.
it's our fault loll
[removed]
this is horribly shameful.  you're twisting a tragic shooting into support for loi 21?
what's your point?
* that if the family had been dressed less ethnically they wouldn't have been mowed down?
* or is it that someone is really racist in ontario, so that means that loi 21 is by comparison not racist?
either way, this is really horrible.  show some respect to the people who died.
it's not just online. yesterday, reporters questioned justin trudeau if he was going to take action against bill 21.
ou pire « that’s not what canada is about!!! ».
man, if it happened in canada clearly yes ...
[deleted]
in psychology, this is called "confirmation bias".
we do exactly the same thing as them ... do you realize that at least?
there are many here who seem almost happy that it happened. smdh
[deleted]
[deleted]
t'es ridiculous.
edith: you are ridiculous! the granny is on the questionable link the roc tried to make yesterday during trudeau's scrum.
what u / sirploxdrake is trying to do is say that since i did not condemn the crime in the granny (!?!) i am a: insert a negative adjective!
we must not be afraid of words, it is as ridiculous and dishonest as the questionable links of the scrum of yesterday.
the worst thing is that the same people blame canadian multiculturalism, whereas here in quebec, with a much lesser degree of multiculturalism, we had a similar attack, if not worse. bissonnette anyone?
i do not think it is autoflagellation, i think more than it is to underline the hypocrisy of what one can read in certain publications of the rdc.
we have a hate crime that has its roots in racism and journalists from the rdc put all quebecers in the same basket by implicitly saying that we are racist and that it is because of us. that too is low.
not because we do a meme about it that we automatically forget the victims. big fallacy that you present here.
shows how white and white centred this sub is... seriously it is so insensitive. like this person is more made about that then people getting killed by a white islamophobic dude.
[removed]
indeed, i do not think that there are people who suspected that there are as many racists in the roc as in quebec. i find this granny a little misplaced, it's not really the time to shout “ah who are the racists now? eh??"
yesterday at trudeau's scrum, journalists tried to draw parallels between the london attack and the racist and intolerant climate created by bill 21.
trudeau went so far as to say silliness that the year of the pandemic or everyone with a mask in the face will cause quebecers to review their positions vis-à-vis bill 21.
at least the saaq knows what the 4/20 means. better to prevent with humor than to lecture.
me who work and make plans on autocad ajd ...
new plan no.69 on 4:20
noice
yup, well as the sqdc can probably say nothing for fear of seeing children stuff themselves with whole cannabis plan, the saaq is taking over.
i had the one with the dog, it made me laugh
can someone explain to me the significance of mj? i know from the context that they refer to 4/20, pot day, but not exactly the significance of mj. is this an acronym? french is not my mother tongue, so i have to use every opportunity to learn little things like this at my level.
the saaq marketing team is on fire! their posters on the side of the road are always superb
they memé until r / trees hahaha
damn i forgot - when short term memory forgets to smoke
there is no j in productivity - unless arruda
props to the social media team at saaq.
me too i laughed when i saw this past
very strong hahaha
i like it. 
not only a good message to renforce, but also does it in a way that is funny and doesn’t condescende.
who would want to drive elevated anyway? think i’d die of an anxiety attack if i tried.
don t drink and drive smoke and fly
beeeen ouiii the saaq i will stay quiet at home. two seconds later at 200 on the 20.
this is a superb example of successful humorous advertising!
it's harder not to know what 4/20 is.
nice
nice
and me that my 69 data in numerical analysis is 4.20
imagine if we could cultivate, the neighbor's children will get stuffed in it and put it in their mouths, they will be * stoned * stiff.
juana is a spanish-speaking first name which translates to jeanne in french, suddenly if we translate marijuana into french as if it were a first name, it gives marie-jeanne or mj for close friends
in english, it's 'mary jane.'
marijuana or marie jeanne
marijuana.
you see, me it's the link between mj and 4/20 that i don't know xd
people celebrate hitler's day and smoke "marie-jeanne"
nice
nice
if we could ... we little up to 4 plants
please give me the history of the name. it makes sense. it's these little things that i love to learn.
i have never listened to this expression in english. there are so many words to refer to marijuana that it is impossible to learn them all.
i like the french one better. looks classy.
thanks, that makes sense. i see the connection now.
thanks, that makes sense :)
for a long time, 4:20 am has been considered a good time of day to have fun. end of the afternoon, we start to relax, supper is coming, etc. there are a lot of factors that have helped popularize this.
4:20 is the official smoking time in popular culture, by the band april 20 (4/20) became the date associated with 420.
so normally on the mount-royal on april 20 at 4:20 there are hundreds of potters who light up a bat at the same time.
the origin of 4:20 is still debated to this day.
nice
unless you are [in quebec] ( hence [the reference] ( / watch? v = t5mx99tab7q & t = 690s). fortunately it was the plq, mononc 'legault also came to ban consumption in public places and purchase for the youngest adults. ¯ \\ _ (ツ) _ / ¯
there are so many songs with mary jane in the title, she must be very popular!
(seriously though, mary jane really is one of the oldest euphemisms for marijuana out there and still top ten)
i grew up in the states, i often heard this expression. it's less common today but i hear it from time to time.
no problem!
til, thank you very much! : d
nice
my aunt lives on the edge of town and she grows 4 plants without stress, treat yourself, the chances of the police picking up at your place is quite slim, it varies depending on your location of course.
criss that did hard in quebec.
i do use edibles from time to time, but my lack of knowledge of the greater majority of slang terms is pitiful. i grew up in a really strict household, and honestly, we didn't really use slang for much of anything. i've probably heard it, but took it literally.
me too, born in canada and raised in the united states.
nice
i know, even before it wasn't terribly problematic, but it's still the legal context from which i was laughing, police action or not (i don't want to grow any).
popular [common slang](  for cannabis. today, every funky strain has its own name, but these are general terms. 
happy 4/20!
i'm a mod and honestly i don't remove any comments other than if it's racist, homophobic, insult etc.
in the end, everyone has the right to express themselves and give their point of view, which is what makes debates / discussions better.
other than if it's a comment that evokes fear or that incites violence and stuff like that, i don't delete anything and if i see that the bot to delete them, i approve of them even if they are not the same. notice that mine.
what comments are you talking about?
it's called a "manifesto" in french, by the way.
are you afraid of becoming anti-vax reading their comments?
it is better to shed light on disinformation than to censor it, otherwise after that it will use it to act like victims.
good thread to locate the next jelsaispas.
there are anti-vax and “anti-vax”. it was a post in which category?
tell someone to give an award to this post. this is the height of ridicule.
the text was quite long. i hope he hasn't typed everything on his mobile and he doesn't have a copy anymore: p
a thank you for censoring a polite and argued post which is neither violent nor discriminatory subject to debate in a site made for that for a subject whose science is not exact and rapidly evolving ... special anyway
we might not agree but the correct answer would have been arguments and downvotes, not censorship to protect my beautiful eyes from his different opinion so vile.
this post is pretty much stupid. silencing an opinion contrary to yours when these are obvious concerns shows less intelligence and a selfish character on your part.
debate is essential in democracy. you will not win a debate by censorship, you will win a debate by arguments. still pitiful.
headstrong
in another world not so distant, it's called "censorship", by the way.
there is no more freedom of expression eh
wow. long live freedom of expression, eh?
have a mini orgasm when someone gets censored? no thanks ...
take my op upvote.
oasis is our new savior!
can you at least tune your english verbs? ex: deleté
otherwise use the french version
- an acadian :)
pro censorship 🥰
long live freedom of speech!
censorship is the worst case
i have a hard time understanding why it makes you happy.
personally vaccinated here, because i want to help society achieve "collective immunity", so that the children go back to school, that my children can see people again without fear.
but, not to let others express themselves, i find nothing satisfying. if they have this thought, vision, there are reasons and i prefer to hear them, think about them, question them, partially agree, disagree. and no just say "you don't think like me, you don't think like the majority, so you don't have the right to speak"
censor opinions that i don't like, wow, r / quebec getting worse and worse every day. the french of france are manifested, the french of quebec let themselves get fucked in the ass, smiling.
* those who get stuffed in the ass will downvote. thanks for showing off!
louisbrunet is starting to sound like a vegan or a former alcoholic.
it's nice big, you're vaccinated, bravo. we don't have to break the becyk with that. you're not special and nobody will change their mind because you repeat it in all the posts.
you'd swear you were a member of the order of the solar temple or just got out of it.
not that it has to do with this post, but there are often racist comments that go wrong.
> in the end, everyone has the right to express themselves and give their point of view, which is what makes debates / discussions better.
thank you for defending this controversial idea today.
holy fuck thank god we have mods that make sense unlike some other subreddit
god among mens
based mod
my french is sometimes hard
especially to sprain a neuron
fear of becoming a misinformation hub instead
this is the rule of jazz: repetition legitimizes.
this is indeed a big danger of anti-vaxx propaganda.
i admit that your comment makes you think .. (without sarcasm).
i am not afraid of becoming an antivax.
but if that causes my interaction to encourage an algorithm to bring false information to the fore.
that bothers me.
i agree, but i think we must also consider the fact that these messages use social networks to "infect" the susceptible world.
in any case, i think this story of disinformation / censorship on social networks is not easy.
yé what happened besides has jelsaispas? it's been a while since nobody spam me with lame amalgamations and crazy comparisons with the usa
do you want to do some reading :)? i would do this comment there. the redditor tried to post this twice before getting kidnapped by mods. there is still a copy in comment on another thread: 
he tried to publish it twice. that means he typed it in word.exe in advance and then posted it on reddit. hence the fact that i call it a manifesto. there's probably been published that also on his facebook and twitter and tomorrow we'll be wondering why there was “zucc” from facebook and “shadowban” from r / quebec
basically, you want to keep repeating your falsehoods online. got it. another on my blocklist
there is a difference between sharing a concern and sharing misinformation.
look at the difference: "hey r quebec, i hesitate to get vaccinated because in my entourage there have been a lot of people with side effects."
and
"the government is a dictatorship to force people to have a vaccine that doesn't even prevent transmission! it should be my choice!"
finally one who understands! thank you
i don't have time to debate with "muh democracies" like you. thank you for filling out my blocklist.
well, hello polite sir. i reported your comment for insult. enjoy the ban ❤️
freedom of expression is about the state's ability to censor you (by only allowing state newspapers, for example ...). this is not about a forum / reddit / a private place. it does not seem to be understood very well ... basically, i have the right to create a platform to share my ideas (on the internet, from a publication, etc.) or to use those who want to let me speak. but that does not oblige any platform to give me the floor and disseminate my ideas.
the most overused term of the decade, "freedom of speech". there is a proportional correlation between constantly crying out for the death of free speech and having no idea what free speech is.
freedom of speech means you won't end up in jail for speaking out. it doesn't mean that people have to listen to your nonsense ...
your freedom of expression is great, but when you spread opinions that encourage others not to get vaccinated, you become a public danger. you have the right to have your opinion, you do not have the absolute right to make propaganda on a moderated forum.
in the united states, the trumpists had the same answer about the election.
it is indeed freedom of expression unless it is used to hurt, misinform or kill.
as seen here a few months ago:
> "we overestimated the intelligence of quebecers and underestimated their egoism" - paul poirier, cardiologist
without wanting to defend the government at all, which i find generally incompetent and inconsistent in the measures they apply ...
but what annoys me about ideological anti-containment is precisely this almost total lack of understanding of the indirect consequences of one policy or another in the face of the pandemic. superficial arguments like "well, there are 8 deaths a day, it's not that bad!" it does not deserve confinement! '' without taking into account that if there are just 8 deaths per day, it is perhaps precisely because we have containment measures. or others like `` containment affects businesses and jobs too much, must reopen '' without taking into account that the pandemic will harm the economy just as much if not more if it is allowed to spread blithely.
or, "don't trust people to manage their own level of risk" without taking into account that a majority of people don't give a damn about the risks they put their neighbor to run.
i would like to believe that the current situation is tough to live with, but i would like to see reasonable critiques of our government, and pragmatic alternatives, rather than gut-feeling out of touch with reality.
it's a shame, i also believed a lot in the notion of personal responsibility and individual risk management. but there is clearly a part of the population who does not think like that.
restaurants as such do not present a huge transmission hazard if everyone is spaced out, with good ventilation, and employees face masks, but i believe that they are open sends the message to some person that the situation is settled and we can socialize without restrictions. that's why i understood the decision to close them in the fall.
did you just realize it?
a large portion of the laws are made for pogos / abusers.
i have been saying this for a very long time, but if everyone followed all the basic measures, we wouldn't need such strict measures. the virus is not transmitted by magic. he does not put on his little boots and his coat to go visit matante jocelyne because it tempts him.
people are just stupid and irresponsible.
counter argument that i preface by specifying that i respect the sanitary measures and that i encourage everyone to respect them.
the measures in the red zone are too restrictive and people are just really sickened and as soon as they can see the world, they make the most of it for fear that it will not last.
i want to tell you that you are doing me good. it cheered me up to read you.
i am a nurse and public health investigator. i have a front row seat to hearing all the horror stories and it's disheartening to see people questioning sanitation measures.
this is what scares me. people no longer want strict sanitary measures and want everything to get back to normal quickly and are very impatient while at the slightest slack, most will not respect anything. i don't want to start all over again, i'm tired and tired. so please, if you are given your “orange zone freedom” don't screw it up and mess it up.
and if their cases increase, they will blame montrealers.
i continue to see my family when possible (so rarely), even with the curfew, there are three adults living alone with my brother as a couple, there is no question that we will stop seeing each other. my parents are very comfortable with it and no one goes out except to go to the grocery store, the chances of catching or giving the covid are close to zero in esti. fuck the curfew.
i apologize but it's out of the question that i spend 12 months locked up alone at home working full time with my stressful job. let them eat mustard.
i really want to save the planet, but not at the cost of slamming myself into a depression or getting back to drinking to deal with my anxiety which is unmanageable these days, there are no psycho resources anyway.
> we must never take people for idiots, but we must not forget that they are.
\-[les inconnus](
and that is in a context where the world is "keeping a little embarrassment" since they are in public. now imagine what happens in private residences ...
what i learned after a 1 year of covid: there are too many people who are just not able to cope in times of crisis and who are even more poking their heads in their little navels.
this is the expected result following the infantilization and disempowerment of the population. what the followers of measures and repression do not understand.
unfortunately, people like to oppose it. it gives them a sense of importance and grandeur. of "courage"
i work in a hospital and the number of my colleagues who are anti-masks is ridiculous. i even have a colleague who bragged about stealing her daughter's asthma pump and putting it in her satchel. she would say, "every time i am asked in public to put on the mask, i show the pump and tell them i have a medical exemption." "
a gang of 5 of my neighbors all went to a cottage at the end of last week to recharge their batteries ...
beautifully, it was also neighbors who had people at their place for christmas, including their parents.
my girlfriend who tells me that when she is no longer part of their gang because we have decided to sacrifice ourselves socially and to respect the measures.
hey, i'm not the type to wish someone bad luck, but i just feel like people are playing russian roulette. because if you decide to go see some people, chances are that you aren't just visiting the same world, or that they themselves are not also visiting just the same gang. and in addition, all these beautiful people continue to see their parents who are at risk ...
but how do you interpret the very great non-compliance with instructions in certain regions without there being an explosion of cases? it has been several weeks since several regions are in orange.
do you think that we will see a significant increase in cases following the demonstrations last saturday in montreal where people were all very close and many did not wear masks?
> it was in a village
how many cases of covid are there in the village?
household transmission of sars-cov-2: 
- symptomatic at a rate of 18%
- asymptomatic at a rate of 0.7%
>estimated mean household secondary attack rate from symptomatic index cases (18.0%; 95% ci, 14.2%-22.1%) was significantly higher than from asymptomatic or presymptomatic index cases (0.7%; 95% ci, 0%-4.9%; p < .001), although there were few studies in the latter group. these findings are consistent with other household studies (28,70) reporting asymptomatic index cases as having limited role in household transmission.
it is really anecdotal your case on the other hand. i too went to the orange zone restaurant last week and the restaurant in question was taking the measures very seriously. we checked our addresses, all employees wore masks and washed their hands before serving a new table or bringing food, the tables were all at least two meters apart if not more, we were asked to leave for 9 p.m. etc.
faque it really depends on the restaurant where you go. the behaviors you describe would not have gone where i have been. they are the worst, they manage to be forced to close again if this continues.
the world are human beings at one point. i guarantee you that there is a chance that it will end because i will not yet touch 3-4 months without seeing the people i love.
anyway, life in the villages is not the same. the world tend to be less educated, it's not representative. i have been to restaurants in town and it is very respectful of the measures.
> tldr; the world is crisscrossing and they have to be protected against themselves.
"think about the stupidity of the average person and realize that half of them are more cave than that."
\- george carlin
i'm not going to lie to you but since the covid i feel like the government is getting stuck with young people. i'm 18, i finished high school online, we didn't have a prom, cegep was crap since it was online so i quit because i was starting to have a big depression. but we must protect our parents and grandparents who have lived lives full of fun experiences that our generation will never live. i find it cheap from older people than me because even if we tell them what's wrong with us, they say that we must listen to legault and be good young people who respect sanitary measures . we are the only ones to be completely ignored in this crisis
it always has been ... at the slightest signal for easing average joe acts as if they said "it's over the virus is eradicated \` \ `
i knew the world was cave, but over the last year i realized that there was really more than i thought. #nofaithinhumanity
i have said it and i will repeat it: that is why the government went beyond the recommendations of public health. public safety does it by expecting people to follow the rules. they don't follow them.
the average iq is 100. that means half the world is below. pi afterwards one wonders why the world is cave.
as jean francois mercier would say;
i don't want to be contemptuous but the fool is not in the process of disappearing in quebec, eh!
be careful, you are infusing people in your comment. this tireless attitude can lead to considerable ethical abuse.
[deleted]
yes but you have to take into account people's mental health. look at how my [uncle] was in quarantine (
it is for his that i was well correct with the measurement of confibulation. if you give it a little, the mlnde will exaggerate. and that's exactly what is happening. if the govt would have left gatherings of 5 people at christmas people would have been 10-15. 0 people and people made the same but smaller
you're right.
this fall i was a delivery driver and i had deliveries to make all over montreal, especially in the east and downtown. i delivered once in the small maghreb and i swear to you that i was completely flabbergasted. at all the open barbers it was as if there was no covid. 15 people crammed on the porch smoking and chatting, no mask or distance. just opposite, a little super clean restaurant (where i delivered) the owner followed all the measurements, there were arrows and a maximum of people allowed. so whatever the race / culture there is always a group of tarla who spoil everything.
> i have changed my opinion on confinement since this weekend
weekend is more beautiful than weekend
for the first time since it closed i went to the gym this week. more people who do not respect the instructions than the opposite tbh. they want it to close, you have to believe.
this is the big problem. most people who criticize the government and say things like "why we are still under curfew, why theaters are closed, why restaurants are closed, etc etc" perhaps think that most people respect the rules. rules and that we must not suffer because of a cellar minority.
unfortunately, this minority can spread the virus. i've been following the rules for a year, i hardly ever go out of the house except to do the grocery shopping or rarely take a mental health walk, sometimes i wonder if the curfew is still necessary. also, i'm tired, but i know it's not the government's fault, they are doing their best to manage the situation and the cellar people make me really angry because it is because of them that we are still in this mess.
ps: the cellar people so i'm talking about are not the people who respect the rules and make valid and necessary criticisms of the government, but the people who are going to travel, who go to other areas to go to restaurants, people who like it doesn't 'wear masks, etc.
there is also a certain point where if you imprison everyone for a year, as soon as you give them the social contact you owe them, as their human rights stipulate, it is clear that they will overcompensate for the lack. who have had it for too long with a glut.
177 xd reviews
my girlfriend went to eat at a restaurant on the weekend and it was quite something. the owner of the place was at the bar, without a mask, talking to everyone within 2 meters. same thing with the staff, the waiters took off their masks at the tables to speak with the customers, inside the 2 meters. it was a bit of nonsense ...
i will defend them a bit.
bravery is one strategy for managing anxiety among many. sometimes it's the right one sometimes it's not. the solution chosen depends more on your personality than on a rational assessment of the situation.
two when you have the choice between pledging allegiance to your nation vs. your immediate group again both strategies are valid. it is true that the state provides you with health care and other services, but when you are in any other type of mess you better be able to count on your immediate support networks. so there is a logic in favoring these links.
however, as your personality does not push you towards the same behaviors, i understand that you are outraged.
i love dogs and my name is plutaph! no speak french, sorry
if it continues like this, it will become a big knockout in quebec. :(
you know ... now before i say i'm proud to be quebecois, i think i'll turn my tongue a couple of times. ;) brief. in tk, it shouldn't be all.
i live in abitibi, and even back home it's pretty bad.
the other day, i had surgery in montreal. because i study art, i wanted to go through the blanc gallery to see the new exhibition. even outside, not long before curfew, i couldn't believe how careful anyone was. having seen what i saw there, it doesn't even surprise me that things don't seem to be improving.
i was in the mall a few weeks ago. lots of people everywhere who walked anyhow, it did not respect 2 meters at all and it fit 6 in the store even if the limit was set at 3 people.
i haven't been back since, we'll wait a little longer ...
well, okay. i think it's just common sense. like if your doctor tells you you have a health problem, are you going to ignore it? if we tell you at your job that if you keep making lots of mistakes you're going to be fired, will you care? are we telling you that there is a pandemic that risks derailing the health system if we do not take measures to limit but you get bored? does your mask make you kid? beautiful gang of cabochons.
i think even a good portion of the people here on the sub who oppose curfew etc. don't realize how common this stuff is ...
the french flag when the kid has a strong quebec accent.
ouan.
for two seconds i thought it was called crosspost.
the kid is skating, skateboarding, origami and speaks 5 languages, well done. hoping that he and his generation find a way to save the planet!
when i spoke with some parisians, they immediately identified my canadian accent. they made fun of quebecois expressions / slangs.
in montreal, this is the reality of many immigrant families! the language of mom, that of dad, that of the school and that of the youtube videos!
based
sick the little one.
the quessé co in spanish seems to me that it looks a lot like us
"i would like that too there but ..."
the other person was no worse too, he seemed extremely fluent in all the languages he spoke
they have a youtube channel and instagram account if you are interested
[  
[
very cool. do you think he learns this on purpose or gets shoved in the ass?
he's so cute.
i’m from the us and speak french with a québécois accent as my parents were from quebec and my primary school years were in a bilingual catholic school taught by nuns from quebec. paris is awful re speaking french and i’m oftentimes misunderstood. however in the south of france i never have a problem and rarely am i misunderstood. stay away from paris and go to marseille! the people are much nicer there!
i expected to hear him say: war, war, spa is no reason to hurt yourself!
the proof that english is the mixture of japanese, quebecois, spanish and mandarin!
poor kid, his name is crosspost!
the little 'hen?'
*crosspoteaux
i love
he has a better accent than me! lol
music to my ears when i switch to the accent of the tuque war
bamf right there boys.
wow bravo to this youngster, it's really great !!
i'm curious, what makes a quebec accent? to me it sounded like french from france (french is not my native language)
incredible ronny  
unbelievable
too strong, the little one! at the same time for the keb accent, it's not really surprising, given that it is clearly ... keb.
cursed who is good. i dream of being as good as him! ayoye
my grandmother speaks 13 languages
quite cool. during this time, we will fight so that his friend samuel, quebecer of french parents, does not speak english 😉
same thing for spanish, accent and pelones are from mexico
ye certainly crossculture
that's his name, ronnie is his north american nickname.
as he stands out a lot, he will be rich and can consume a lot, adding to the problem more than the average citizen.
so what ? me at his age, i threw my boogers super far. there are no bad talents.
we know how to save her, but we'd rather eat an unhealthy amount of beef and have $ 200 tvs.
lots of french people really see quebecers as a circus animal huhuuhuhuhu talks and makes me laugh
afterwards, my "immigrant" accent from montreal (i was born in montreal) did not satisfy them.
eat dla marde mon tabarnac. are you happy?
the one and only time i was in paris, i spent the rest of the day getting answered in english lol
as a result
suddenly, i don't care and i continue to speak to them in quebecois. and i look at him like it's stupid to understand nothing. it always ends with a nice quebec accent. try it works. lol
exact! i have a romanian friend married to a cambodian. their little ones speak french, english, romanian and khmer and alternate from one to the other depending on who they are talking to, it just freaks me out!
based
all your base is ours.
based on what ??
he is in good health, in fact
that's worse "fa frette" is "fa freddo" in italian, i like bin / mi piache
this is big bong [ superbe(
it's too weird to make money off the kids
it doesn't tempt me to give views to a chanel that uses children for views. are they canadian / quebecois or they just after the french thanks to a queb teacher
at this age, languages can be learned easily
it is a very conceivable scenario.
we say “dyscalculia” for numbers.
you mean the white archeologist who translated the mayan language......dun dun dunnnnnn
i remember when the end of the world was scheduled for december 21, 2012, and that day i get up to go to school and i see that there is a mega snowstorm that is closing all the schools ... lol
i am flabbergasted by your creativity
10/10
why is it the face of ...
fuck i managed to forget his name !!!
victory !!! 1
ps
shit
leo dicaprio ...
tabarnak
since the mayans had a base 60 digital system, i doubt that a dyslexic would have confused 2012 and 2021 ...
madmax was in 2021
what is the fucking relationship with quebec.
no need to look any further. if we realize that the vaccine is only effective for a very short period of time ... paf, we have it in the ass.
all the eggs on the planet are currently in the basket of an effective vaccine in the medium / long term. we don't have a plan b.
it sounds like a word invented by a dyslexic ...
i might be wrong, but there wasn't a meteor in the sky that night too?
it's a repost of r / rance
because the memes posted here are more normal than my grandmother's facebook feed
pi back to the future it was in 2015 but i don't have a real hoverboard yet
ben is a french-speaking granny so obviously that applies to us.
i had the same concerns, however from what i read and heard, although immunity could only last around double to triple 4-6 months) of immunity after contracting the disease (~ 2 months ),
the body will produce antibodies more efficiently and quickly following a contraction of the post-vaccination illness.
thus giving symptoms much less worse, and a shorter duration of illness and a natural renewal of immunity.
it could be!
electric scooter technology costs less.
true, but we forget the speed with which viruses adapt (to the vaccine among others) and their potential to create new strains. which complicates our defenses a bit!
yeah, sure, but i'd rather have a hoverboard than a scooter, [at least some people are working to make this a reality] (
the spanish flu is the flu we have today. from what i have read, the same could happen with the covid. in 1918, when it was the first time people's bodies came into contact with this new virus, it was a very brutal flu. (the death toll sums up the situation well).
now the flu that we know is thousands of mutations of this virus and it is quite common to catch it. (not pleasant, but it is not 30% of the elderly who die of it).
for geeks, i see the vaccine as installing a new bone for your immune system and the mutations in the virus that we could catch in the next few years will just be updates.
in the case of this one, it mutates very little.
i'm still trying to find out if the current vaccine works against the new strain in the uk, but it looks like it does.
what you are saying is wrong, but i understand your mistake. to identify viruses and their origins, they are assigned a code, h1n1. the h and n are the antigens on the surface of the virus. viruses like this (hxny) are a sub-category of influenza viruses, which are the common viruses for us. however, some of the viruses of the influenza category, of the h1n1 sub-category are more lethal than others of the same sub-category. so the 1918 pandemic, 2008 epidemic, and normal flu are all similar viruses, but they are different.
then, in terms of mutations, indeed, viruses mutate a lot, why? because they are unable to correct their genetic errors during their creation. the cells in your body are large and complex, so when they reproduce, they take the time to make sure that their genetic code (dna) is not damaged, if the code is damaged, the cell destroys itself beforehand. to start doing its job (when this self-destruct process fails, the cell can become cancerous). a virus is ... let's say soviet, even if it's bad, it's okay there are 1 million others! there is bound to be one that is good! which means that it never checks out and which results in mutations, the majority bad. but, if a modification is good, and the new modification becomes more efficient than the original one, we speak of a mutation and a bunch of mutations end up creating a strain. according to the laws of evolution, the objective of a living being is to reproduce it. will consider the virus alive (even if it is not). its objective is to multiply this, but if it kills its host, it's not super super efficient ... so mutations which increase mortality are rare, generally only those which increase contagion and which decrease mortality survive, which explains why certain viruses subsided over time (very, very long term). our body gets used to it too, but that's the big reason.
i hope that helped you understand a little!
edit: small errors that i saw quickly, and i rephrase a sentence.
what has been identified in the uk is not a new strain but a mutation. it was very clearly specified yesterday.
edit: this is what the radio-canne columnist said yesterday, but i see that the documentation does indeed speak of a new strain. strange...
returns:
> called "vui 202012/01", a new strain of the coronavirus was detected for the first time in great britain in september. in november, around a quarter of positive cases in london were linked to this new variant of the virus, according to the bbc. this rate rose to two-thirds in mid-december.
> this new variant carries a mutation in the tip on the surface of the virus that allows it to attach and penetrate human cells. it has spread throughout the uk except northern ireland. it is particularly concentrated in london and in the south-east of england.
so the said new strain that dates from september has just had a mutation that makes the virus more threatening for us.
> next, in terms of mutations, in fact, viruses mutate a lot, why? because they are unable to correct their genetic errors during their creation.
coronaviruses have a process of repairing genetic errors in their rna. 
this is why we are not afraid of seeing big changes with this virus.
thank you very much for the excellent explanation! i'll go to bed less silly as they say!
> according to the laws of evolution, the objective of a living being is to reproduce it. will consider the virus alive (even if it is not). his goal is to multiply this, but if it kills its host, it's not super super efficient
the reason why this is not effective is that if the host dies he cannot give it to others. however, sars-cov-2 is transmitted even before the first symptoms appear so it would theoretically be possible to have a strain that is transmitted very easily and which is also very fatal.
a new strain is the consequence of one or more viable mutations.
mutation or strain, don't screw up the terms, we simple minds. let the scientists rip their heads off with the exact terms.
the important thing is to know how this changes the current situation.
i did not know! super interesting, thank you!
i don't know enough about it, but i think it's still unlikely, despite being more likely compared to other viruses.
i had not thought of this aspect, thank you for bringing it!
maybe that would push me to start listening to quebec television again because the estis of consensual shows of stars who pamper each other by plugging their new book and the play in which they play, i got my ass full ...
@ sarah-jeane "i flip single-family duplexes on the island of montreal in the midst of a housing crisis" labrosse
it often seems that the people who control this page are 20 years old.
the worst part is that we have talent here when it comes to television! yet currently you just have 2 choices
or you listen to the 8th variation of the same drama show with stars just wanting to lick each other's ass and everyone's talking about it.
or listen to scandalous shows with personalities forcing their extravagant lifestyle down your throat.
i don't know how to say it but i have the feeling that television belongs more to the real world. culture and art are cool, but i would like these shows to represent it more of what people experience.
i miss the time when we had lots of series cellar screeching but funny style the heart to its reasons
bailiff i find it much worse than the week of 4 julie, making money by showing the misery of people, i find that much more stupid.
in the current context in addition to bailiff, it is the eviction of some of these tenants that he shows.
fruiter is not linked to the aggressor pedonet ??
i came across a 2 minute yesterday of "yes we have bell! you have to go bell! bell is unlimited! bell is amazing! if you have bell, it's going to be fine!".
it's clear that bell is shit.
the worst part is that he is right. this kind of program would also make it possible to highlight a current problem that everyone is experiencing. it would probably be of greater public utility than the other show on our stars;)
bin no. you know how to show how hard the poor bailiffs have it in life.
we will see star-rated onanism shows as long as they have good ratings. you'd think if the broadcasters presented something better, the audience would appreciate it, but i'm really not sure. we make good tv out of it, but few people watch it.
it's cool that we have our own show business, but it's a big circle jerk.
it interests montreal art hoes to see montreal art hoes being miserable.
with the 20 detective series and the 30 drama series ...
it's funny that you use the expression "full ass", because i noticed, looking 5 minutes here and there, that at la semaine des 4 julie it only talks about that, of the ass .
nothing against salty, salacious or naughty discussions, but sometimes there is nothing to do with the question (compared to the ass) and the guest or the subject of the interview.
it's just weird ...
ayoye it's true. i listened to his show, it's great as decoration / renovation entertainment, but i was uneasy about it. weird '' timing '' with the pandemic and the current housing crisis.
what? is this a real show ?!
fruiter was good at first. there it is 99% of the same zoomers that i do not understand on stars that i have never heard of.
but i still like their tendency to mock attention-seekers on instagram and tourists who go to south east asia.
personally, i would like facebook twitter screen shots to be banned ...
i might be an exception if this is big news.
what did you expect from a page called “memes focken fruiter”, seriously?
the shows like première fois avec véronique cloutier and the show in the chalet on tva, are they really "the art of culture"? it's just stars telling their memories. an almost perfect dinner represents quebec culture more than all the plugs shows put together.
it's okay if tva always hires the same 10 actors because it's private and they do what they want, but radio-canada should give more actors, producers, directors, etc. a chance. special enough that louis morissette controls everything in that tower.
are there still any good comedy series produced here? let's say if we take out les beaux malaises 2.0?
at the same time i listened to the bailiff and there are many cases where people rent their 2nd floor or their basement who do not make a big fortune and the tenant has paid more for 6 months and the apartment has become unsanitary . it's rare that they mount renoviction cases
yes, but it could have been there
yes. i am no longer able to encourage them
yes the shows with a 30-40 year old lady with brown hair trying to solve the disappearance of a little girl, have just 10 shows like that hahahaha
at the same time, they have to follow their contract
yes passion pousierre a vero tv. i think she is at her 7-8 iiem "house"
the same zoomers are pretty much the dankest ones on the market today
what better content? chu may just be old.
when you make posts like "lol vive cailloux" to be lol so random
it's hard in caliss
veronique cloutier is on the 3rd issue of this kind. the children of the tv, rearview mirror and premierre times. i understand that its concept is selling well internationally but an original idea instead of recycling the same business just to make more cash its becoming boring
the problem is that there are always plenty of people ready to tear their shirts off when radio-canada does things they don't like and asks for the funding to stop so they don't have exactly the choice to go with it. which "sells" in terms of popularity.
there was like me before
no precisely, it is badly the only good
infoman
between 2 sheets
we liked "les mecs". we found it a lot funnier than les beaux malaises.
renoviction not indeed but it remains the misery of people, i'm not saying that for some reason they also looked for it but still i don't like the idea of showing it.
especially since we know that some bailiffs are on a "power trip". i've seen it steal things from some people.
it was known in the community. i find it hard to believe that the founder is no longer pulling the strings of fruiter knowing that he has been exposed and that he has probably lost his professional job.
for real, since série noire, it is the creative nothingness in cursed. obviously, i have surely lacked pearls since then but let's say that my interest is elsewhere ...
i don't know what you're talking about hahaha
i thought she was just renovating her own place?
only zoomers believe that
when she tries something different, the show crashes and then comes back with a recycled concept. i would probably do the same in his place.
fruiter is made vincent houde and his friends
this is how i love you was amazing though, right?
i press this is how you love you 👌. moreover, it is the same creators as série noire.
otherwise the m'entends-tu series pleasantly surprised me too. the first 2 seasons are on netflix and télé-québec. the 3rd is being broadcast on tq too!
[deleted]
what else did quelel do in the last 6-7 years?
still, the guys had known about it for ages and waited until it hit the media to supposedly kick him off the site. it is beyond me to be so accomplices in the silence.
hahahaha, esti. quality shit post.
how i like them.
wow the circle is complete thx
i think who takes you for an asshole?
layer with a little more and then cancel it.
awesome meta-post
top quality poop poles.
i don't think your relationship will survive for lying so early in the relationship. better the baby trapped before he runs away.
hard to say but [according to the other thread] (
lol. those who know, know
haha asti that in good
personally i'm more hungry after all the popcorn i ate while checking the sub today anyways
layer with
i don't know but i prefer to be poor and vaccinated than the other way around
anglophone here, what does it mean to have "had a round"?
u/enazas ?!?
hahaha !! it's good to wash your dirty laundry on reddit! you were made for each other in the end!
if he likes bad boys, it's good for you
if the date is worth it, explain that your budget is tight and that you could do another activity. if you go further you will have to say it at some point.
asti that made my day all that !! 👌👌👌
just be honest. tell him it's boring but you don't want to date it anymore if that's the case or just that it's been 2 times that said no to the restaurant and that he stops insisting if you want to continue to see him. lies like this are not going to be positive.
well, the "i haven't been vaccinated" has become the perfect date loophole (to end up on reddit)
you don't have to keep seeing it, know that you always have a choice in the date.
muahaha, take your upvote, your award and go to bed
m   e   t   a
and
t
a
is this the same couple as yesterday? 🤔 i saw the reverse post look like
you're ready to believe anything - ideal situation
bravo bravo! lmao
legendary marry me
this is excellent haha. dates are tiring, they rarely work, except to impoverish your portfolio
spotted st-lin?
it's like od all that
it begins well. leave it to marie, i think i'll move on.
well ... cooking at home is always better than at a restaurant anyway!
thanks for him. anyways who wants to date a broken one who is lying and confesses it publicly.
tell me that this story is legit !!
hello, i'm just passing through this sub, could someone please explain to me what a <<rond> >.
\ - a frenchman who would like to learn more about quebec :)
lol effective as an answer, but if he wants time to date you, who pays for the food, or if not wait, but a person who already insists a lot on a date gives no good impression for a long term relationship, that without control or a future jealousy. personal opinion and only a generality, not necessarily the reality.
draaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
doesn't he pay?
are you a woman?
clearly fake
not a round? never have that expression
so many / r / whoosh in this thread
meta as fuck
[deleted]
it's just too funny, compared to the guy's version, in another post. i invite you to read the opinions of the people who responded to the guy's version. a whole perspective on lying.
if you like it living in lies, unreality and the complexity of simple things, that's your business.
personally, a real person who confesses who has no money for a restaurant, with a real person who replies with another good plan would have been easier.
it's you who decides to be what you want to be and to attract what you want, but honestly this situation is shitty to the max and does not benefit anyone, if you want my humble opinion ...
asti it's bad
ciiiircle of liiife🎼🎶
worse who will ghost you.
score! we had it off !!! ah-hihiiiiiii! heille, anderson cuddle! tobacco! tobacco, we have it! yiyiyiyiyi! calvary of cuddly tabarnac! we have it, owl! eh? huh mary, cuddle? your lasagna was good in tobacco! ciborium of tabarnac! we - hee, anderson, ordeal, that's my cheek as a host! crisscross! tobacco! calm! it put that 2-2, ordeal, and cuddle it 3-2 in addition! heille – sti – we are going to – r – ah – heille, my, my chair, got me there, brought it to rue sainte-catherine, cuddle. tobacco! tabarna – heille, screech that d'da – heille – y'a – ah y'a – a-do-tu v-a-did you see that? have you seen this? have you seen this? ciborium! orgore it tabarnac! argargargargargôre! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy ... ciborium! was made ... gâ if it's easy! ost – tabarnac! gâ if it's easy! gargargargar-gôre, tabarnac! it's easy!! it fits like butter, like popa in moman. cursed côlisse! ... tobacco! tobacco! heille, a strong aut, côlisse! ... we kick a tabarnac!
bro wtf i worked 5 years with himself mr. lol
it's funny when he's happy, but it shouldn't be funny when he's angry.
gâr if it's easy. gâr if it's easy! hey tabarbak !!
i want to watch the next game with this man.
**#minutesdupatrimoine**
r/languagelearning
we found bob gratton
me it is the "one fires a tabarnac" at the very end of the video which comes to seek me. excellent video !!
little thought for foreigners who learned french from france and who settled in quebec.
can you see the same show when we lost 2-1 after the staal pass esti?
tobacicitte
dad?
it seems to me a religious experience there
this is quebecois in tabarnak
it's perfect 🥲
almost a nice as the québec anthem:
it makes my day every time the radio plays this in saguenay, usually on frigide mornings during a snowstorm lol
i love you tabarnak
colisse! tabarnk! ieieieiiiii!
the guy is in a good mood! (in tabarnak)
"chair bar paper bag"
yes, an extreme lack of vocabulary.
> it put that 2-2, ordeal, and cuddle it 3-2 as an extra
it makes rhymes more!
> huh mary, cuddle? your lasagna was good in tobacco!
too hype to stay civilized more than half a sentence lol
"score!  we had it off !!!  ah-hihiiiiiii!  heille, anderson cuddle!  tobacco!  tobacco, we have it!  yiyiyiyiyi!  calvary of cuddly tabarnac!  we have it, owl!  huh?  huh mary, cuddle?  your lasagna was good in tobacco!  ciborium of tabarnac!  we - hey, anderson, ordeal, that's my cheek as a host!  crisscross!  tobacco!  calm!  it put that 2-2, ordeal, and cuddle it 3-2 in addition!  heille – sti – we are going to – r – ah – heille, my, my chair, got me there, brought it to rue sainte-catherine, cuddle.  tobacco!  tabarna – heille, screech that d'da – heille – y'a – ah y'a – a-do-tu v-a-did you see that?  have you seen this?  have you seen this?  ciborium!  orgore that tabarnac!  argargargargargôre!  gâ if it's easy!  gâ if it's easy!  gâ if it's easy ... ciborium!  was done ... gâ if it's easy!  ost – tabarnac!  gâ if it's easy!  gargargargar-gôre, tabarnac!  it's easy!!  it fits like butter, like popa in moman.  cursed côlisse!  ... tobacco!  tobacco!  heille, a strong aut'lisse!  ... we kick a tabarnac!"
[translation by google]
well yes, i understand everything he said now.
you deserve gold
/ r / copypasta
were you also colorful in person?
no but what is beautiful is that you can use the same words, there is just the intonation that changes
orgor!
how dare you question the enriched vocabulary worthy of voltaire of this gentleman?
do you have a more developed vocabulary when you cum?
bon bon bon fate sweep your ass a bit there, a little fun has never killed anyone!
he has the perfect vocabulary for the circumstances, i would say.
why are you still standing here? do not stop insulting everyone on their french and you say that you could come to the sub ...
but you still come back to insult people. is your life so sad that you can't find anything better to do?
the god of rap
isn't that murray?
orgore that tabarnac!
yes and no but he likes hockey in tabarnak hahaha
attention whore
yes in the genre: tabarnac, take off the cycle path with your electric "motorcycle".
unpopular opinion: if there is an accelerator it should be ditched.
i can't wait for them to put rules on these little things. to be considered a bike you have to pedal, period. and to be a scooter for people with reduced mobility you have to have 3 or 4 wheels.
for those who are interested, here are the rules of the saaq concerning the electric bike / electric scooter:
** assisted bicycle (e-bike) **
the maximum power is 500 w.
the maximum speed is 32 km / h.
it bears a special compliance label.
it is not required to have a decodable 17 character serial number conforming to transport canada standard 115.
it cannot be registered.
wearing a protective bicycle helmet is compulsory.
** electric scooter **
the maximum power is not limited.
the maximum speed is 70 km / h.
it bears the standard transport canada compliance label.
it must be identified by a decodable 17 character number conforming to transport canada standard 115.
it must be registered.
wearing a motorcycle helmet is compulsory.
i am surprised to always see a large electric scooter / motorcycle without a plate. it is possible if they are limited to 500w but they seem quite heavy for that.
where did you find that? it's [my photo] ( and i shared it to only one other person and he swears to me he never shared it. lol
it's not a motorbike, it's a choppeur
it is an electric bicycle.
in the sense of the law, a two-wheeled vehicle with an electric motor which has pedals so that it can be moved by the muscular force of the driver and which has a maximum speed limited to 32 km / h is officially an electric bicycle and has no not to be tackled. if you zoom in on the image, you can see pedals. if you take these pedals off then you need to ditch them or it's illegal to use them.
ironically, these electric "motorcycles" / "scooters" don't cost much more than e-bikes.
tabarnak ^ i ^ remember
it's not a motorcycle.
omgg i don't like them, i had an esti cabochon chasing me when i was on my bike with that on the bike path. i was so uncomfortable that i had to stop for him to leave me alone.
describe the cycle path with your scooter
taouk a shawi-sud ?
in shawinigan. owner of taouk health. beautiful person criss this guy!
there are more and more electric bicycles and other means of electric transport (skate, scooter, one-wheel, etc.) on the road and on cycle paths ... one day we will have to legislate or i don't know, but it will there are more and more fatal accidents ... a 70lvb electric bike that hits you at 32km / h can kill you.
the problem with all these electric transports is that they are often too fast for the cycle paths and too slow for the streets ... so we don't really know where their place is in this world.
was the photo taken at the taouk santé restaurant in shawinigan? i saw one like it with the same plate and the decor is similar haha
it's on 3rd street in limoilou, isn't it?
fuck i would love to have this plaque on my crate!
it takes a license given the power of the engine, but why doesn't it have to be tackled?
it's almost always a face of filth that sits on it. do they steal them?
what is the model? looks good!
shaw
ahah surprising shawinigan
very beautiful.
ouan, a bit like bs ngl.
omg so much
that or the handicapped smarts (like the one who did her groceries at the maxi) decaling the bike path with your tank which takes both lanes.
i'm too cheap to give you an award but you deserve it in your! the worst part is that some models run at 50km / h in the street and then embark on the cycle path. especially on the jaques cartier bridge to avoid traffic.
or else: tabarnac, roll out from the middle of the street with your electric "motorcycle".
or rather, enlarge our cycle paths so that there is enough room for all who do not want to risk cars.
exactly. my surron is doing 75km / hrs.
it is not legal on the road but i have seen that he uses it on the road so .. its should be tackle or like an off road motocross with a special plate
if you want to kill all these affordable means of transportation in the bud, it's a good strategy, yes.
edit: 
i'm going to copy an old post i made here because i think it's important to understand:
(adjusted to current prices)
> when i talk about economy, i am talking about the savings possible with the purchase of a second vehicle that consumes less. not from my bank account ...
> 
> my personal example:
> 
> i have a 2009 ford ranger, which consumes, in the best case, 10l / 100. so i am a good candidate for exercise, because my vehicle consumes more than most people, i better have a second vehicle that is more economical.
> 
> registering my scooter costs me $ 23 per month.
> 
> it consumes 2.5l / 100
> 
> we will pretend for the purpose of the exercise that i can ride all year round with my scooter.
> 
> so when i use my scooter, i save 7.5l per 100 kilometers, or $ 11.25 / 100km at the current price of gasoline. to save $ 23 per month, i have to drive 204 kilometers. with a vehicle that i cannot drive on the highways!
> 
> and i only compensated for the registration. i have not paid for my insurance, nor for the vehicle or its maintenance. i understand that road user insurance comes at a cost, but i have the impression that the money is not going to be found in the right place.
the new fashion for us is electric "unicycles". and i use the quotes because there isn't even a bench to sit on, it's basically a wheelbarrow wheel with a metal frame on top of it and the user is standing balanced, like on a you * segway * amputee.
but these little babes can easily exceed 40km / h without making any noise, sometimes you get passed at full speed on a cycle path and they zigzag between pedestrians and cyclists. i can't wait to see one plant one day to see how far the user will be propelled through the air ...
a scooter is registered, why not that? an electric bwizze it's still a biwizze
[deleted]
including electric bikes
a lawn tractor ?!
even bikes should be tackled. this would greatly reduce the risk of theft in addition to putting an end to an argument of anti-bicycle gnochons.
even wheelchairs!
why?
but i want one and i don't want to have to pay for plates.
[deleted]
> wearing a protective bicycle helmet is compulsory.
is this made compulsory for all bicycles or just electric bicycles? i still see hundreds of people riding their bikes every year without a helmet, it puts me off as i'm seriously shopping for a fullface for the winter. (i use my ebike as a replacement for the 363/365 tank. there are two days a year on average where i keep a little embarrassment because the weather is really bad)
note for the 500w, this is the nominal power of the motor. a nominal 500w motor can easily make 1000w + for a few seconds or even continuously at 550w + with enough cooling, in addition to manufacturers who will deliberately underestimate the power of the motors.
the standards just say that the [rated total continuous output power, measured at the shaft of each motor, does not exceed 500w] ( 2c_ch._1038 / 20200204 / p1tt3xt3.html)
which does not make any sense, because a nominal power [is not measured as such] ( ' there is% 20 than% 20of, altitude% 20nominal% 20a% 20satellite.)
edit: note that i am using the archived page for the standard on the 500w, as the standard is no longer relevant in the regulations and has been removed in this version.
narrator: and he shared it
i think we are talking about the same motorcycle and not the same photo
hint: shawi-sud sector;)
it's not the same photo, [you can see the wet asphalt space doesn't have the same shape on the two images] (
someone else took a photo of the scooter at another time and shared it.
she was also shared on spotted shawinigan
pulp fiction!
a little hard to know if it's a chopper without seeing the front wheel ......
it's a bike but they never pedal. this is the worst shit because 95% of them are unrestricted (ie illegal) and are driven by crazy people on 50 km / h bike lanes.
* but they were all fooled, because another woke was forged. on the lands of gouin, in the montagne du royal, manon, the lord of darkness, secretly forged a master woke to rule all the others *
this is how gnd came to be.
it is by woking that we become wokeron
ah me you see when i imagine manon massé who forges wokes, the image i have in mind looks more like saroumane who makes uruk-hai warriors in the mines under the isengard.
in addition she has the hair of saroumane, it fits full.
seriously legault, who calls gnd a woke, it was quite pathetic, i'm glad it turns out the same.
wokebecicitte!
qs gets on my nerves but it must be admitted that for a while, they have been the only concrete opposition in parliament.
i laughed in tbk
this is excellent
credit: [l'actualité en memes] (
ok this one is good. rest to photoshop gnd on the face of the guy.
the worst part is that i had manon as a plastic arts teacher in 1994. it's the kind of bullshit she would have made us do. with his damn drawings with little circles. tabarnak manon! made three times that we made a drawing with ti criss of circles !!
crisse is more beef than the blacksmith.
lmfao 
hold a free award
wtf no glasses ,?
one woke at a time, with a big bang from massé!
get manman'w communist band
revolution of too much noise
lol
true story!!
oh naw hell naw
calisse it's good
a woke to rule over all voters, a woke to find them. a woke to bring them all, and in the voting booths to bind them.
* the story became a legend, the legend became a tale by fred pellerin *
laughing out loud
this is the first time that i regret not being able to posivotate a post more than once.
hats off.
* in this woke, she poured out all her thawed pogos, her white hair and her will to dominate all lives. one woke to rule them all. *
gorgeous
tabarnak is my gold for someone who does not want to put money in reddit:
🥇
ha ha ha! 🤣
wow 😂
[deleted]
you are not alone thinking of the lord of the rings it seems
it would make such a good deepfake.
you could put the same job name all!
> i'm glad that it turns out the same.
everything is better in memes.
why are they getting on your nerves? i'm a supporter of qs, but i'm 100% open to what's kidding.
rice*
wouldn't that rather be on the anvil?
the drawing osti with small circles! unfortunately this is not a short story from manon, it was quite unanimous in the art classes the repeated geometric shapes, from the brick walls to the trees, tired by the foam baths, really wanted us to do them. maytite geometric shapes!
three wokes for kings united under the clouds;
seven wokes for the pq lords in their caves;
9 for the damned liberals;
a woke for the sinister caquist lord on his throne;
on the plains of abraham where the shadows reside.
it is still rare now the full squared, even in thrift stores ...
aek des gugumes.
in the pan!
🤣🤣🤣🤣
i plan to get a qs membership card soon but ngl, it's still funny
is it beautiful
my body reminds me of the climb to the acropolis des draveurs.
my head reminds me of the view from above.
esti that it is beautiful quebec.
it's super beautiful, but ... with the way the colors have been changed it kinda gives the impression that the house is on fire ^^ '
is it me or are there more and more posts in english on this reddit?
it's been so long since i visited that corner ... superb.
what a beauty !
it's 6 o'clock from us. he want to visit the proclaims year. that's wonderful. (excuse i am english speaking)
really want to be there!
if you see more photos from my trip to the park, you can visit my instagram: [
i saw a moose family in the morning and took some really nice pictures of them too. have a good day and a good weekend everyone.
wow i've already been there in summer but these a whole different landscape in winter great photo
such a beautiful image. stunning.
it's so beautiful charlevoix
the 381, one of the most beautiful roads in qc. unfortunately i was unable to do the acropolis or any other trail in this area due to overcrowding this summer. are there winter trails in the gorges? your photo is beautiful
thank you so much! i appreciate it.
it's certain! unfortunately the acropole des draveurs trail is closed for the winter so i need to go again in the summer to get to the top!
i was dying to say that too.
it's not because of the color adjustments that the house looks like this.
there was a family by the lake who made a big fire in the fire pit next to the service center, and the lights in the chalet were on! these colors are completely natural.
[shit's on fire, yo](
> sorry! i am an english speaker and i did the job quickly. in the future i will post in french, that's for sure.
it's raining.
yeah worse? à la placd de chiâler encourages the world to put titles in french.
the park is almost empty at the moment due to covid, i really suggest taking a visit! it is beautiful at this time of the year.
thank you! :)
where do you live? i'm from montreal and it was a 4.5 hour drive - well worth it!
it is an extraordinary park!
yes, it's really different, and super beautiful in winter.
thank you so much, i appreciate it!
i am okay!
it's true, in the summer i see it's really busy. the other trails in the park are unfortunately not very exciting (there is no real elevation)
oh yeah ! but, your photo is sick, old man. as beautiful as above certain.
thankfully not :)
yep
you are lucky !!
aylmer (gatineau)
it's certain! i have a great project in mind for my next visit. but i think i need to have special permission to sleep on top of the mountain 😂
there was still a lot of work to get these photos there! each morning i get up at 6:00 am and we travel to rentals each day to capture the perfect conditions.
on the other hand, it was really lucky that a family arrived and made a fire!
wow, such an adventure! a lot of work too. i will try, the same, in winter, on mount royal
there are much better ones ...
[
on the other hand, why every time there is a pronunciation of quebec, does it come from shawinigan? is there a guy over there who was really bored for a day and recorded all the words?
what i find funny is the french who do not distinguish between the sounds "é" and "è", especially in the endings of verbs.
example:
[speak] (
[speak] (
the guy from brétigny-sur-orge pronounces both with an "é" and the daughter of cesseras says both with an "è".
shawi's great cultural metropolis has clearly superior pronunciation, the french academy should take some notes.
it does not take big
i'm disappointed, i expected a “clencher osti d 'caliss de tab ....”
of all the cities in quebec, is it shawinigan that has been taken? wow! i am cramped
the french are very critical of your accent (even if it's still quite benevolent) but it's because we are jealous!
no seriously, i spent part of my studies in montreal and your accent is wonderful, metropolitan french is so flat, so monotonous .. your accent makes this language happy and much richer!
is this a dedicated website for different pronunciations of words from variant regions? as a learner of french, especially quebecois, i would like to know the link if possible :)
am i the only one to pronounce “tlencher”, with the tip of the tongue touching the palate from the start of the word?
what is shawnigan? is it an aboriginal word? i know him because there are places called shawnigan in bc.
i never heard "clencher". do we say that in france?
lol who are the people recording them
the best for me was when i went to chicoutimi for delivery. i'm parked in the wrong place and the customer comes out with his arms in the air and lets go "bin la, kess you do it? don't put it on, put you there" bin la ok. haha
at least it doesn't sound like "clone" ... 🤔
what does it mean to trigger? we don't say that in toulouse
tchin le
clencher, 'sti!
i will not tolerate this! who on the south shore of montreal wants to join forces with me to ensure that shawi does not dominate the hyper-selective niche of the pronunciation of words in quebec in online dictionaries?
u / savevideo
guy thought, shawi will rule
have you ever spent a winter in shawi?
> is there a guy over there who was really bored one day and recorded all the words?
amateur.
this is the user page of the prolific wiktionnaire contributor.
i come from beauce and i find that it would have been much better "awoir la marde au tchu"!
[
i think we will still have to seek his services
etymology: composed of mustard and ass.
mdr!
> * on the other hand, why does every time there is a pronunciation of quebec, does it come from shawinigan? is there a guy there who was really bored for a day and recorded all the words? *
yup; welcome to wikipedia / wiktionary / openstreetmap / the world of free software!
your father gardens, his neighbor does renovations, his friend writes a novel, others draw, your mononc 'sings, and his sister does karate.
worse, some contribute to wikipedia / wiktionary / openstreetmap / a whole bunch of community sites, or write / correct / test / share free software. it's a lot of fun too 🙂. * "to each their own" *, as the other would say.
then the 80% / 20% law (and the ability of our brains to notice patterns) do the rest: among the contributors, there are a ton of micro-contributors who have one or two additions to their credit, but there are dedicated people for one reason or another who alone make up the majority of contributions.
as a certain history teacher i had in high school would say, "it's because of * shawinigan water & power *!"
or the indistinguishable pronunciation of "in" and "a"
the first two ring a bell for me. i grew up in the paris region, it surprises me a little for the person of brétigny. perhaps it is due to the fact of having to register the word as such, which changes the way we use it compared to the reality where the word is contextualized?
ie "i ate", and "i ate" for me are completely different, and yet the guy from brétigny makes no difference ([ate] ( a9), [mangeais] (
tl; dr: i don't agree with monsieur de brétigny, at least
in "belle", patrick fiori says: "who is the man who will look away from her"
i never get tired of it.
is that good haha
my mother is spanish, learned her french in france, and has lived in quebec for over 35 years. and it still does not differentiate between the 2 sounds.
i had a french teacher screaming against the accent of southwestern france.
for him it was a heresy in particular to pronounce the word "milk" in "le". he shouted "we say here!".
it really depends on the region.
é é é ê.
all the same.
it all depends on the region, i pronounce the two differently and i don't really understand how it can work in the regions where it is pronounced the same since the two times have nothing to do ....
i loved you, i love you and i would love you ...
i believe that dany laferrière (member of the académie française) proposed a reform of the pronunciation of the word "four" ...
"clencher"
*sets off.
i like being able to hear the swear words in his pronunciation without having to say them.
wiktionary (the site from which the video was captured) is a community site; shawinigan was not "taken", someone from shawinigan recorded a pronunciation of a word indicating shawi as their city, and it became de facto one of the proposed pronunciations of the word.
if you come from saguenay and want to add your clanche color, create an account and let go 🙂. (may the wiktionarians here correct me, i may be saying nonsense, and certainly also that the wiktionary admins will clean up if they see 86 new quebec pronunciations tonight.) i imagine their goal is to offer a broad spectrum of pronunciations, but pronunciations very close to others were probably used hidden, so as not to "overwhelm" users).
i expected to hear jean chrétien.
my mother (french), when she comes to visit me in quebec, says of the quebecois accent that it is "singing".
this is [wiktionary] ( not all words that have a "pronunciation" section and even if they do, it is t is not always with someone from quebec.
this one appears to be wiktionary.org, but what you're looking for exists:
- [forvo](
- [youglish](
for other resources (besides the 2 i gave you in my first comment), you can find many on the [wiki] ( ) from the / r / francaiscanadien sub-reddit.
unless i say, "throw me a bullet!", probably.
[a town in the corner of trois-rivières] (
well, even before the pandemic it was not funny.
i would like it to stay after the pandemic not to come to work when you have the flu or gastro. you might be fit enough to come to work, but i don't want your germs.
i was a huge leon fan when i was a kid, i met the author and everything, i decided to reread a few volumes recently ... not terrible in general, i still don't understand why i liked it so much that.
phew, we screwed up!
i can't wait to keep putting on my mask because, aye, i also haven't caught the & / $% $ / cold in almost 2 years and be tried for it.
[deleted]
r/agedlikemilk
what.
it reminds me of this old article published in australia during the sars crisis:
oh shit, i loved leon when i was kid xd
i say the same ... but it's page 13, it was surely the beginning of the curse. sacred leon!
it is a souvenir only
a fart goes through two buttocks, underpants, and pants, while people think that a permeable mask, poorly worn and that you touch all day long and that you re-use will stop a fucking virus.
yes, i fully agree.
calling sick when you have the flu means living a guilt-trip all day and anticipating the next day filled with colleagues who ask you what you had and your boss who sees that you are not so sick.
please understand me well; chu screeching to stay at home if you feel bad. but the customs are still in the “come and work similarly my esti”.
> i would like it to stay after the pandemic not to come to work when you have the flu or gastro.
hah, good luck. watch the bosses who want to force the useless face-to-face once the pandemic is over and you'll see which bosses want you to come home sick.
that, and standardize wearing a mask in public when you're sick, as is done (it seems to me) in japan.
uh .... who's going to work with gastro!?!? !!?! ???
stay at home little nature 😆 it's not a flu that has never prevented anyone from entering a construction site! lol
> when you have the flu or gastro
-> when we are contagious
sorry but even now that's not what happens. people don't care whether they are contagious or not, it doesn't change anything in their actions. they go to work when the authorities say to go and stay at home when the authorities say to stay at home, their situation (contagious or not) has nothing to do with the equation, even i would say it has. downright worse because ordinary people have been taught that:
1) there is no difference between being sick and not being; so what's the point of monitoring your symptoms and acting on them? (transmissions without symptoms around 25 times less likely and not being able to maintain an r above zero on its own, but the public believes the opposite). if it makes any difference to be contagious or not (new standardized anti-science belief) why take different measures when you are?
2) they should not have autonomy or self-accountability - only conform and obey. if you do not display a symbolic conformity to the norm of the day you are being kidnapped and insulted. choosing to mask oneself to protect others without being ordered to do so when the mask is not compulsory is a measure of self-responsibility, it has made it bad now in quebec.
3) you have to hide the fact that you are sick, otherwise it makes some panic who react as if the end of the world had arrived as soon as they see a runny nose; so if you're going to be working with a mask you're going to freak everyone out and you're going to have the hr and all the * would-be * bosses on their backs wanting to ruin your day. so discretion to avoid trouble, and a mask is certainly not discreet, it is completely ostentatious.
in the past, when we masked ourselves for a cold in quebec, the plebs were afraid that you would give them aids by wi-fi waves and would move away to sit near the yucky man who coughs in the open air in the corner opposite to you. i speak from experience, i brought this habit back from my stays in asia and it always made me laugh when i masked myself in the metro to see gigons from quebec panicking and moving away but never worrying about people projecting their germs everywhere. in the future when they go to see a mask they will make it a state affair and try to evacuate the building and blame it on you. so, common sense will be not to mask yourself when you are contagious to avoid the problems caused by covidians.
so many missed opportunities to improve things, we made everything worse.
[deleted]
i read this to my children (book chosen at random from the neighborhood library), sometimes they will laugh, very often it's not funny. like snl skits.
personally, i see it just as irony and a social observation. the guy cares about his health and the health of others and even if he does the right thing he gets ridiculed. there's not everything that is supposed to be funny in life, just because it's a comic doesn't mean they don't have the right to make social statements
i have found what will be the second life of my post-pandemic masks by cycling from île notre-dame to île des soeurs on a beautiful spring evening ...
without my mask, i don't know how much flying protein i would have ingested or snorted. i'm going to keep them, my masks.
have you been exposed to people with colds?
you can't catch a cold if you're locked away from other humans.
sorry about your uncle. i think we all know a few.
hence the title. i had thought of posting it there, but i told myself that in french it would go smoothly.
try google translate maybe?
exactly! useless therefore!
it doesn't stop there. imagine it's number 13 of "délirons avec léon", "special thirteen strange"!
would you prefer that i fart you in the face with or without underwear?
your fart is air, like your breathing.
the virus is like the mard that comes out of your ass when you fart, the one that stays in the back of your panties.
if i hold my umbrella horizontally during a thunderstorm i'm soggy, conclusion, umbrellas are useless.
also, pet = contagious virus
thanks. noted
it's such a crazy world we live in that in return no one is going to blame you for making them sick and for affecting the productivity of the team by infecting everyone.
we have just spent a year at home for nothing because we are too cellar to accept that people spend 2 days at home when they are contagious.
at my old job i literally couldn't win.
if i came home with the flu, the world would cry and bother blowing my nose, coughing, sneezing, in short, being sick, and then you are still the same.
if i called off with the flu, when i came back the same people would make "subtle" comments to me that i seem to be doing well, or "yeah the weather was fine yesterday, i understand you" "yeah it did you a beautiful 3-day-old ".
the worst part is that i also have migraines. so it's been an atrocious day when i'm out of service, any light or noise gives me the desire for murder, that i have the misery to exist that it's not true that i'm going to come to work, but the next day, yes sometimes i'm a little "stuck" and i feel slightly as if i was in the next day of brush, but from the outside i look top shape, so i was always implying that i was faking .
without joking about not getting me to give similar comments is clearly one of the biggest advantages of having changed jobs.
come and work in the metro as usual
or the bosses who forced face-to-face in the midst of a pandemic in offices ...
i imagine if your workstation is close to the bathroom, it's manageable.
draw like her? at the risk of sounding elitist, there is not much to his style ...
or if you have your mask ...
yep unfortunately
when you have to look 18 years back to find an article that supports your worldview.
it would be socially reprehensible to fart in other people's faces, just like sneezing or coughing in other people's faces. i am not convinced of your analogy. a badly worn mask that lets light through will inevitably allow viruses, which are much smaller in size, to pass. masks are very useful in medical, controlled and sterile settings, but they should never have been used for political propaganda.
also: photon> virus. take your notes properly.
like the queen who stays close to her throne
just if there is a changing table in the cabin for the disabled to put down the laptop and continue to make video-conference calls.
[deleted]
it wasn't my analogy, it was yours and it was terrible.
a poorly worn mask is as useful as poorly worn underwear, yet no one uses this argument to say that underwear is useless.
and a wet mask might not stop all of the particles from getting through, but it's definitely going to be in the way of their projection. to stay with your original analogy, it's like the difference between peeing naked and peeing in your panties. your stream of piss will go much further without underwear.
unless you can prove to us that with or without a mask it's the same 2 meters distance.
"political propaganda" lol. your argument doesn't prove it was. and the mask has been used in asia to minimize influenza transmission for decades without anyone blaming the policy. between japan and china, there are more humans who have used a mask when they have the flu than not in the past decades.
yeah and nobody does my poo as well as i do, that doesn't mean it's a masterpiece ...
wow. thanks for that!
tell me that you have 32 iq without telling me that you have 32 iq ...
at least these are constant in their hams. what really pisses me off are those who still put on their awkward masks after one and a half of pandemic. so let's see if the nose fits in the mask. i screech of a big nose and mine comes in without making an effort batinsse.
normally, this behavior would be ridiculed by those around us. the internet and isolation has just allowed these people to come together and encourage each other in their bogus beliefs. in a normal context, they would be told "well let's see it is so stupid"
in my opinion, we need to be more reactive when it comes to imbeciles who transmit bad ideas of the kind. i believe that anyone who comments on a conspiracy theory under the publication of some newspaper should be made a fool of himself.
the idea is not to change the opinion of this particular individual but to pass a message to others who read without commenting that it is ridiculous. no one wants to be associated with ridiculous ideas.
we must avoid that publications have only conspiratorial comments, it suggests that these ideas are more accepted than they are in reality.
i would like this world to live a real totalitarian dictatorship 2-3 days. not bad on that after 15 minutes in the "political re-education camp", all of a sudden, the mask would become so insignificant.
if this world could at least bitcher on real problems ... the treatment of indigenous peoples, the insufficient funding of mental health programs, the rising cost of living ...
she must look for a little red felt-tip pen to draw the tip of her nose that protrudes.
《it's been 2 weeks since i did my grocery shopping》 this lady thinks she is part of a historic revolution, it's sad.
** "it's been 20 years since i did my grocery shopping. they demand that i wear something to hide my penis. **
** sexists! "**
can you stop giving importance to these idiots and ignore them?
and boy, i lived in chateauguay and the maxi / walmart there really welcomes all kinds of humans !!
it feels so patriotic to come and kid shopkeepers and clerks at minimum wage by gagging libartoué! diktatuw! by taking a picture of themselves to prove that they are soooo hot 🙄
is the conspis lousy ...
she doesn't have the face of a lady who knows what fascism is
it's been a nasty stretch that the pandemic has been more of an iq test than anything else, and that's where we see who has a room temperature quotient.
it shows the good side of things, to see the world like ginette in the photo: it makes it easier to identify who is the tatas that you could meet.
one thing is certain: in the event of a zombie apocalypse, we are all in trouble. too many navel-gazing and people who are not even able to apply the law of least effort. it's as if the colonist on duty that is in every horror movie is a smarter version of what you can read and see on social media.
everyone is disgusted, and it is not by making the cellars that it will help more. we saw what it was like 16-17 months ago.
english speaker on mobile so i can't copy the title easily, can someone translate this excellent post?
you will grow your own vegetables karen 😂
and why do so many people think that stores are public places where they have a “right” of entry?
its tempting you on a one way trip to north korea to know what a dictatorship really is.
imagine wasting your time making such an ugly and poorly made mask.
i imagine that writing dictatorship on his mask took him at least an hour to do ...
🤡🤡🤡🤡🤡
it's just a subtle way to snort sharpie all day long 🤔.
> it's been 2 weeks since i last did the grocery shopping.
the problem will resolve itself, just be patient ...
it reminds me of the man who voted with a bag of potatoes on his head
imagine snorting so much glue in kindergarten that you think wearing a mask is dictatorship.
i saw someone walk into a convenience store with a * fuck you legault * vest (without a mask, of course) and come out almost immediately. it was funny.
it's good because it makes him look like a clown.
it is appropriate ...
put on a mask and respect people or starve the ostrich.
please can the tip-of-nose-protruding mask become a symbol.
the memetic potential of this image is terrifying.
check it out there! s't'une sold in the sale of optométriss caliss! / s
"dictatorship"?
i invite them to go and live in china, russia, cuba, north korea ...
they will see what dictatorship is.
2-3 weeks ago, not a client with no mask or with an incorrectly worn mask. for a few days now, it seems that the fools of society have woken up and they want us to make a bad shift.
she is right, yesterday while going to job i got caught up in a dictatorship. leave it lying around everywhere, kid!
in any case, me being in châteauguay, i would do my grocery shopping more often at maxi! go dictatorship! 🤦‍♂️
curious to see this in 2021 indeed.
she may never have been released since march 2020 ... who knows. buttocks of doubt!
i wonder if a series of videos posted on social networks with testimonials from survivors of dictatorial regimes who now live in quebec could help in anything. i understand that sometimes it's people who are really far away and difficult to bring back, but i try to find possible solutions.
it's so embarrassing.
put on your mask and shut up your eyes, ginette.
i can't wait for the fall! / s
i deleted facebook precisely because i was able to see posts like this every 30 seconds.
clearly it should educate on the history of real tyranny (stalin, hitler, etc.).
it's the equivalent of holding your belt under your arm when you're young because you want to rebel against your parents and you don't want to tie yourself up but you don't want to be bullied for pretending to wear it.
you're already there! just wear a real face mask like the rest of the world.
here's a grocery store conspiratorial poem:
sweet rebellion
in the aisle of pickles
a certain patriotism
while shopping for bread
you will look like an intellectual
passing by the honey
enough of this dictatorship
take me a jar of jam
legault is a pedophile maniac
at the cash desks i will cry out my anger in the queue.
ben is starving.
i'm not sure she's someone who should be breathing felt scent, she can't afford to lose a lot more cells.
the dictatorship in quebec is unique in that it has retained none of the features of all the dictatorial regimes that preceded it and that one feels the same there as in countries that are not dictatorships. sick.
remind us when you look like you're coming off a hunger strike ...
in the meantime, eat ... shit? : p
my favorite activity with this kind of posts is to see the comments at the bottom of the page, especially those that are already "collapsed". good free entertainment :)
tell me karine, i see you are wearing clothes at the grocery store .. you accept maxi's dictatorship, hmm.
people like that are everywhere. i have an employee who calls it dictatorship (having to wear a mask and wash your hands in stores) and talk about an experimental vaccine. too much facebook softens the brain.
it's not just that they are still doing this, it's getting worse and worse. the world is sickened so they go after people who are just doing their job.
we could advise him to go to haiti or north korea, the mask does not seem obligatory labas5!
no time to waste trying to make the jugs understand common sense! i tell myself that natural selection will take care of it
his whole body leaning forward
i remember singing that when i was like 5 years old without understanding the lyrics. 90's parenting ...
[deleted]
all this time dédé was singing for michael jackson and we had understood ...
there was smooth criminal
outside neverland
what does "balma balma sama wadji khadjalama yonwi" mean?
stop eating the little turkey! i'm going to listen to the album again.
hahahaha the roommates!
it tasted like vomiting, it wanted to die
crisse ahahahahaha
his whole body was leaning forward
👏
hey he's the bad guy in demon slayer
there was a taste for vomiting
i wanted to die
it was gone, it was not there
wait when you go to find out what is behind "you played hideout in a funny way, you cheated i'm sorry, what got into you my brother?"
i know we sang that less often than tassez vous de là, but still enough that it shocks me a bit to know the story behind the song, especially when you realize how great it is. obvious lol [i lol but it's not lol pentoute]
in defense of your parents, the toune played absolutely everywhere, and in prime time.
the 5 year old girls were screaming gabrielle destroismaisons in the living room!
one of the most famous quebec songs is 50% in wolof.
"wolof /ˈwoʊlɒf/ is a language of senegal, the gambia and mauritania, and the native language of the wolof people. like the neighbouring languages serer and fula, it belongs to the senegambian branch of the niger–congo language family."
today i learned.
rey is 🤣🤣🤣
can you translate the title into french?
a polite way of saying go away in wolof
what are we doing in this time
ah tabarnak whaaaaat
call your brother out the same, wow ... i'm on my ass.
in defense of my parents, they took a lot of drugs.
excuse me my friend, let me go
i had no desire to flee
i don't know in the case of this particular artist, but let's not forget that their tunes don't necessarily tell their own life. sometimes they sing stories, a bit like actors.
thank you
i left him alone at the edge of the ca-ta-strophe!
forgive me forgive me, i didn't want i didn't want
didn't want to abandon you in the roughest moment
i'm the coward of the cowards, not the tough of the tough
balma balma sama wadji khadjalama yonwi
djeguelma djeguelma sama wadji
khadjalama yonwi
sama wadji khadjalama yonwi
we are last in the list, but we are in the same list!
i remember when i bought mario galaxy 2 on the wii, my father and me, we were overjoyed to see toad say "it's fun at the end!" in a video game of this popularity.
i never understood why this game was translated into queb but i'm not complaining :)
a little different but i always liked in assassin's creed black flag, the bits that happen in the present are in montreal. the president has a very pronounced quebecois accent and speaks several words in french when speaking. i almost spit my glass of water on the tv the first time i heard him say: if it were up to me, we criss.
osti it's beautiful
i add the messenger to this list and most likely sea of star the next game from the same studio
> oh ho my little boar
esti i almost woke up my girlfriend laughing. it's so out of place in a video game. i love!!
otherwise i wonder. is there a list of games made in quebec? not the big ubisoft studio stuff, i'm talking about the small independent game studios. i would like to support the local studios :)
imagine being from portugal and having to choose português (brasil) 😮‍💨
🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷🇧🇷
it's really cool. personally, i would prefer that we say quebec french so as not to reinforce the idea that many french people have that quebecois is almost a language apart.
no way.
thank you gamepass ultimate subscription. another great discovery
it would be really fun to put quebec and its characteristics more forward, whether in video games or in film translations (like slap shot or the simpsons!)
let's be proud of our unique accent in the world, let's put it forward!
it's on steam too and there's a demo!
edit: the gameplay, the attacks, etc, it's super smooth! being able to pick up just about any item and they all behave a little differently is pretty sick. there has been a lot of polishing on it.
old school: the character malice in jagged alliance 2 (1999) is a mercenary from quebec.
it sounds like this 
it's rare anyway
wow, and it's available on gamepass! i'm going to test this, thank you op
it pisses me off to see the culture of my province reduced to coronations and cliché expressions
apparently nintendo has their games translated in quebec for the quebec market. i have animal crossing new horizons and a few days ago katt told me she wanted to eat a poutine.
same deal here lol but with mario galaxy 1. it was really weird to see that
the legend of zelda: skyward sword also has a quebecois version, even if more subtle (it does not speak of bebitte in french from france). beedle keeps the english name in uébec, and calls himself terry in french from france.
the same goes for breath of the wild (in the french version of france, the ラ イ ネ ル (raineru) take the name of lynels (as in english), while in quebec they are centaléos!
it's funny but i thought i had "dreamed" the quebec version of smg2. i just remembered a clip from almost 10 years ago of m.net with denis talbot (our gaming lord and savior) talking about it but i have been able to really rethink it since since i had no wii. it's cool!
ayoye, mario galaxy 2 has been translated into quebec french! that's cool! it amazes me.
"princess peach is very fine!" »i don't remember if toad said it like that but i remember he said fine
it seems to me that the last paper mario also has a quebec translation.
play far cry new dawn. the helicopter pilot is called roger cadorette and even in the english version, he speaks quebecois, crowns and speaks english with a big accent quebecois felt. you can watch it on youtube it's hilarious.
yeah you can find some quebecois in quite a lot of ubisoft games
there's the hacker in watch dogs 1
pilot in far cry new dawn
black flag is happening in montreal
etc
there's even some lqjr song from [hidden somewhere] (
well, that includes young and old alike, but it's better than nothing!
* [jeux](
* [studios](
kona
it's a game for pc, made in quebec and even nicer, it's happening in quebec!
check out the catapult program, it's an annual competition that started as in 2019 that helps to distinguish quebec indy studios but also the winner of the competition receives an additional grant to finalize their project and help with lawyers but also game design provided by ubisoft.
ultimate chicken horse! this game is really fun with friends (local or online).
and many quebecers say it themselves (i speak not french, i speak quebecois), what they neglect, on the other hand, is that the codification of the language is almost identical between the two varieties, the misunderstanding of the french comes from the lack of linguistic exposure (and possibly their presumptuousness), nothing more really.
hahaha that's spicy
still weird since my animal crossing is in international french! the settings the my switch can be?
i also want katt to ask me for a poutine!
i would have more imagined joey as a fan of poutine. especially to eat the pieces that fall on his sweater.
oh my gawd
strangely, my mario galaxy 1 was in international french for some reason.
even the names weren't the same. like in the 1 it was rosalina but in the 2 it was princess harmony (???)
i never understood.
or my god mr. net, i feel old.
for real me with! the reception must have been average for example because i have never seen a nintendo game again written in the same way: /
also, the first character that was added to rainbow six siege is a montrealer called sébastien côté, and there are plenty of lines in quebec. for example, if you reload your gun it yells "j'reload!"
oh shit, dead by daylight is made in quebec, i didn't know
thanks for the site
courageous. it would take almost less time to list the games that are * not * made in quebec.
:)
his quote list is big candy. i think i'm going to start a campaign.
shit de marde!" - more enemies spotted
"i'm in big marde, la." - surrounded by enemies
you have to go to the console settings and choose "french canadian". acnh is really translated into quebec, it's great i think!
apparently there had been a mini-scandal of parents outraged that their kids could be exposed to such a vulgar representation of the french language and nintendo just removed it from the batches afterwards.
fortunately this version was preserved in the 3d all stars released recently ... don't say it too loudly i don't want it to be patched: p
[this is the first article i found] (
seems to me that zelda ocarina of time and majora's mask 3d have been translated into quebec french. not sure about the second one though. and it also seems to me that for the quebec version of breath of the wild, they made the french actors redo certain lines of dialogue for the quebec market (kind of as in the quebec version, in one of the cutscenes, zelda says "c ' is exhilarating "instead of another expression (which is a very minor difference))
it was really horrible as an adaptation! the elections were not done in the right place, in particular, it gave funny results.
"ah hello! do you want to blow up all the drains here for me?"
(real sentence from the game)
i would bet 20 dollars that it was a frenchman who wrote that haha
uh omg ok i'm going to go change my settings yesterday to play acnh in queb!
i will always be marked by toad which says: cannons are the fun, eh ?!
and on the same site the cookie popup says:
> this site uses cookies (statistics, advertising & comfort). [késako?]
and the button:
> of course! send the sauce!
what a beautiful french ...
fuck i should never have read the article, it got me too pumped for a saturday which is supposed to be quiet.
paris had the notre-dame fire. now it's montreal's turn.
i bet $ 100 that this fire is not totally an accident ...
how convenient to build a new condo tower
do we have at least the carriage of sex left?
it stinks of fire put on purpose for cash. don't make me believe that the club was running hard during the pandemic.
one of the best buffets in montreal. what a tragedy!
aaaah. was it just me who saw a heritage value in this facade? i had slipped a word about it to someone at heritage montreal and judging by the reaction it was far, far from being on their radar.
let's observe a minute of silence
great sex?
if i had $ 10 i would go to ... ah fuck.
the beautiful crystal has lit the customers too well.
sad ! :(
already the ste-cathe is rendered flat to death, without any flavor or color.
ah shit, we only have cinema love left.
some developer paid crackheads to burn it down. condos are next. will the spvm investigate for fraud? nope
this post in memory.
f
as long as chez paree remains open, there is no drama!
well we will finally be able to demolish it to pass a beautiful cycle path.
/s
the doric is also rip
tough times
are women too hot?
i'm not from montreal, context?
there is no need to say ...
it was a hot evening!
noooooooooooo! she’s an icon!
and the girls who steal money
fuuiuuck
oof, in honor of this legendary place:
when i went, the boss used to tell the girls "turn on the heat".
be careful what you wish for...
i can only imagine the demons that have been unleashed on to montreal after being freed by fire.
arson much?
so what’s the building and why’s it on fire?
i hope the five guys is not affected
do not!!!
ohhh this sex is on fire!
what happened?
end of an era!! never got a chance to sample their lunch buffer :/
there is alot, of history there.
what a coincidence. just as the government grant to help businesses during the covid ends. but what a coincidence.
oh no….  all those women who were just simply trying to put themselves into college….   hopefully nobody was seriously hurt.
baguette 🥖
it is so degrading for women in general and especially in bad taste.
burns osti of junk of old mononcle udder of disreputable tourism
burn this building this club exploited woman for decades
69 upvotes, nice.
edit: argh you ruined everything!
the file is at the spvm ...
are you saying they could be corrupt? in mtl? never!
conspiracy!
and there will be no consequences. on the contrary, they will take advantage of it.
during this time, don't even dare to suggest to do something, you will pick yourself up in jail.
no shit
needed that insurance money i bet
this is exactly what i told myself. it's like the snowdon theater which was a super beautiful art deco building with an incroayble interior which was totally abandoned by its owner and which one day caught fire only to be sold to a real estate developer who built there. a big condo.
hahahahahaha !!! not worse!
when i started reading i hadn't seen the picture and was like “oh no not another r / fellowkids post! ". but after looking at the whole picture, is good lol!
og harold is hungarian, right?
it is an honor. (even though i'm from saguenay / chicoutimi)
the harold de trois-rivieres is cuter. to be as hot as the real hungarian harold, you also have to do a tedx presentation like him 
for those who haven't seen the "harold" ted talk. he has the super nice man.
sounds like a good audi guy indeed.
child: mom, can we have harold?
mom: nah, we have harold in trois-rivières
three rivers:
really the guy's name is andras arato and he looks nice
*netflix adaptation*
he looks a lot better, i'm happy for him.
r/fellowkids
i found that this gentleman did a lot of harold too:
bah! , i can't afford to go see it anyway (me who writes this with the same side of the same original)
[deleted]
are you really him? he emigrated to quebec?
no worse for all
and
here, my free trophy, you made me laugh!
with a title like "fraud", that's pretty much the proper expression.
it's your opinion. i find it funny
do not
they just made a joke
which in italian means: if
it's too nice! thank you honorable u / melykka !!!
oh, another facebook post that ends up on reddit for no reason…
in reality, this is a mistake! you have to write sì.
audi trois-rivières.
in reality it is a reference to the heart has its reasons!
in reality, this is not a mistake, but rather a mistake!
my bad! thank you for the information :)
thank you, but i took my uniform french test. i can now afford to write without breaking my head!
in reality we say: "without breaking the becyk"
it is pt a rich english speaker who sums up his role as tax payer!
as long as i pay $ 200 in voluntary taxes, i'll buy myself $ 200 as a lifetime winner 😛
cool, but the best will always be the plate "plates"
it would not be good for our economy
would need a plaque that says "nation" mdr
it worked well with your username
finally the proof that only one person supports xd sovereignty
makes me think i saw a plate that said thxpcu on a new nissan. i couldn't believe it
this is not how we write "mulch"
it's written in french, so there's no risk of being vandalized.
pays a wuss  
so so
cmon cmon  
omg omg
i have to say it again  
omg !!
lol 😂
"this guy fucks"
chaispastrô, nationalism quite always points to emotional insecurities, like a corvette!
tabarnak of separatists fu
[removed]
quebec is not a country, understand that to mandate
perhaps an english-speaking friend of the liberal party who sums up his relationship with them: "quebec pays" ...
you're just gonna be $ 200 poorer and without a personalized plaque.
i'm going to buy myself some apple stock and some bitcoin or ethereum dust.
1ii1i1 is my fave.
the best plate i have seen is 20dredi, i still haven't recovered.
lol do you have a picture?
[deleted]
as claude peloquin aptly summed it up: "*** you are not sick of dying, gang of cellars! ***"
do you want your own brexit ??
but the majority of quantities want to stay in canada (whatever they want).
[deleted]
we would have been able to perequation
especially with quotes
a plate on a nissan should be fu cvt.
calm the van.
at the beginning, there was no one
who said omg
pi end everyone
began to say omg.
omg
used-name checks out.
[deleted]
the sub is generally very separatist and very leftist. welcome if you are new
we understand it very well, don't worry.
"to hand over" lol. do you mean "at some point"?
you lacked love you eh?
> mandonner
[conjugation of the verb mandonner] (
we understand, that's why i am an independentist!
the separatists are those who understand best that we are unfortunately not a country.
it is clear. i have a hard time understanding this idea of a personalized plate, i admit. i would do so much else if i had $ 200 to spend like this.
hello to you companion xkcd follower :)
i like my "blind" plate
wouldn’t the saaq throw a hissy fit about that being hard to read?
> anglophone canada thinks that quebec has nothing to offer the world
it didn't look like that in 1995 just before the referendum when the federal government was paying to send us buses full of roc people to come and bawl that they love us and not leave them.
why would canada insist on keeping a province which speaks another language (and which forces bilingualism (at least on the surface) in provinces which claim to do so, like alberta), a province which constantly calls for additional powers, who seems to benefit from equalization, which decided that part of the taxes would not even go to ottawa, which votes for an openly sovereignist federal party (and which has long been the official opposition!), which refuses to sign the constitution? seems to me, seen in the same way, canada should be * happy * to get rid of quebec.
canada will not say it directly, but they have everything to lose with the separation. they don't want us to stay because they love us, they want us to stay because it benefits them. they know very well that a separate quebec could prosper outside canada.
this is when your father helps you make an equation
i just opened this post between 2 sets at the gym ..
i shifted to get myself a poutine.
what is gérard's house? laval or fabreville?
i miss taking a big mega gérard on a friday evening 10am with a big 7up
ps: there seem to be several chez gérard chains. it's a popular name. the photo is from chez gérard patates frites to be precise. a valentine style chain with its origins in the tip-calumet corner (towards oka). i ordered from saint-eustache. don't move around, it's still a chain poutine but it went with the theme of the poutine tournament. she would have had my vote in many fights. it's not the same chain as the two chez gérard de laval (i think).
even if i fret just looking at it, it is clearly a good poutine. very well said itou: "for a chain poutine", very clear. enjoy your food !
without stuffing, chez gérard is really good for a neighborhood deli. their all-dressed poutine (hot dog sausages, peppers and mushrooms) is very, very enjoyable!
i just had dinner, but i'm still hungry
i caught it with 3 mikes blue freeze and my intestines are in tabarnak
finally a quality post!
lots of chez gérard in the province, not just the chain.
the one in st-georges does not make a worse poutine too, especially with peppery sauce. not the best in the area for the regular, but each to their own.
try the version with bacon and ask for extra onion. it is fabulous !
styrofoam in the 21st century? :(
the real chez gérard is in beauce;)
i have been going there regularly for almost 20 years. the poutine is really excellent, i often have the bacon one and there is a lot of everything, with a good balance.
the sauce / cheese ratio is very inviting. nice cooking of the fries. criss that i'm broke.
thicc
r/foodporn
how are the fries?
each time i say to myself "this is my last for this week" and each new post makes me dive back
[deleted]
the sauce from chez gérard is really what makes their poutine better.
what would be missing to have the 10/10?
i really want the employee's t-shirt (the one in fabreville). every time i go i give them a high price to buy one. the restaurant of my childhood, extreme nostalgia.
edit: obviously they tell me the only way to get one is to work there
uber eats not deliver to our house damn
dude if you knew how i want a poutine, and you share that. sadness
a moment of silence for people with lactose intolerance
post sponsored by uber eats? seems to me it's info a useless price ...
it constantly disappoints me that we can't find real poutine where i live in san francisco :(
$ 10.20? plus $ 20.20 with $ 5 uber delivery and $ 5 tip.
same..good shit
tabarnak
good bin, i order a poutine for supper end of viarge.
i miss the time when i lived in the assumption, criss that the poutine of the beautiful pro was delicious
the i'm stuck in quebec or one of the least worse is that of ashton, but not with hamburger, is nasty as fuck
product placement / 10
at least don’t mention that you’ve been too lazy to get it yourself and used a shit delivery system that eats on the margin of the food premises.
the love of poutine is the glue that unites all of quebec!
we ordered 3 large poutines for my family of 4 (10 and 13). had to spend $ 30 for a 26% off on uber eats. i ate only one, i don't feel good. there is a lunch left for my wife tomorrow.
one of the reasons why i don't open reddit at the gym, my big greedy ass without discipline is often has a photo of the feast haha
saint eustache. it is native to the region. the first was (still there) in saint-joseph-du-lac / pointe calumet near the superaquaclub.
lol “laval or fabreville” i didn't know that my hometown was separate…
by the look of the poutine i can guarantee it's not fabreville.
fabreville> the rest
i'm not even sure it's the same channel actually. hmm.
edit: not at all the same restaurants.
7up diet for me, you have to be careful little
indeed, these are two distinct chains. chez gérard patates frites dates from the 1950s in st-joseph-du-lac, chez gérard in laval dates from the 1970s. there are also others in the province with the same name.
ok is there really a link between the two famous gérard de laval? i always wondered haha.
i have often seen so many restaurants with the same first name in the name. you have to believe that the gérards really like the snack food. when i imagine a gérard, he is often a fairly paunchy man, a little too tanned, ideally with a gold chain around his neck.
yes i imagine it's a 7/10 in the world of poutine but for a chain and delivered in addition, not badly satisfied.
i don't know if you're ironic but the poutine was quality;)
next time ! ;)
the real one is the one close to the house;)
i have the impression that there are two at gérard. a chain in laval and another in the laurentians (chez gérard patates frites - i ordered there). where were you?
it doesn't matter who is right in this story, it still boils down to the fact that tips in restaurants are problematic.
it leads to:
- abuse by employers
- pay inequity between employees, shifts or different restaurants
- misrepresentation of the real cost
saying it's good for your cv is like wanting to pay the world for exposure, it just gives you more credibility for the next one who is going to want to exploit you.
it seems really sad in the restaurant industry, i am surprised that there are people who want to make a career out of it.
i hope this kind of denunciation will help improve the situation.
and there are people to go and defend him ... oh well ...
the same is excellent!
"yes but the experience and the reputation"
by paying his staff at minimum wage, martin picard makes sure they don't have enough money to buy gunpowder. it is clear that he has the well-being of his employees at heart. / s
i do 18 an hour at mcdonald's when i'm in rookie training, normally 16
500 per full-time reference after training and another 500 after probation. fuck the pig
edit: 50% more discount no worse
not sure that it really deserves to be defended, but  share
i have a neighbor who owns one of these fancy restaurants and he found a way to change one of his 2 mercedes during the pandemic, so restaurant owners are clearly not all pity and minimum wage is a joke.
mcdo is giving $ 500 to hire right now on top of that.
plaid shirts, roast pork, bacon, maple syrup. martin picard is a caricature and a crosseur.
upvote please! this was posted on a government site, the owner purposely put a low salary because no one here is going to apply. after a certain time if no one applies, he can go and look for cheap labor abroad with a closed work permit!
during this time five guys pay their teammates $ 18.50 plus tip. i remember when the dude went on the no reservation show with anthony bourdain. the guy was adding truffles throughout the episode. after that, they won't be able to pay their employees. fuck off
catering needs a big kick in the ass.
the salaries of the waiters are frankly disproportionate compared to the salaries of the kitchen workers.
personally, i think we should remove tips, add 15-20% to the price of the invoice and pass this amount evenly to the employees, kitchen or department.
rather than having kitchen staff at $ 18 and waiters at $ 30, everyone's like $ 24.
it's been almost 2 years since we last went to the restaurant for us ... we don't miss it now. worse there, in addition, they seem to have all increased their prices in sick without improving the conditions of their employees ?! lol ... good chan
the memes on r / quebec are served hot, all buttered and delicious.
i come from st-benoit, i have a lot of friends who have worked at pied de cochon. the working conditions are horrible
reference?
hehe i’m learning so much french from reddit
$ 15.50 / h to work at mc do? here they commit at $ 18
salary of starving when the boss is a millionaire. it is time for things to change.
we are in a labor shortage at the moment. as the previous comments illustrate, it is possible to have salaries that make sense at mcdonald's and five guys to be ambiguous. it is also possible to go back to where i work with a secondary 3 and know-ish speaking french and making 18.18 $ / hr.
in other words, martin picard is free to offer the minimum wage, but unless you really want to work in his restaurant and have the means to do so, there is no reason to go and work there. no need to swallow in front of a ham that does not understand its situation. it is not the employees who need him but he who needs the employees.
mental health> your pay
the posted salary and the subsequently negotiated salary are two different things. am i the only one who knows that here?
[deleted]
also, tax fraud if tips exceed [8% before taxes] ( and are not declared in their entirety.
i have never worked in the restaurant business but seriously i do not see how it persists. i know several who ended up getting paid less than the minimum wage pcq they couldn't get enough clients and the propios, who also had financial problems, said they couldn't compensate them.
i like restaurants. but i don't want my experience to depend on the exploitation of the people who work in the restaurant business.
fifteen years ago, i studied the option of training as a chef. from the outset, the conditions are appalling (late hours, unpaid hours, excessive expectations of the owners, etc.) but already, the salary was not great. in 2021, giving that is a joke ...
getting paid in exposure lmao
this is x's reasoning. we lezix were told at school that we accumulated our notes in a wallet like money. after we tasted no future, and a lot of people got stuck on their asses. it took a squeal of time before we collectively moved in pcq the boomers never described. so for us, everything is capital, not just money; academic results, "friends" and acquaintances, even volunteering, kind ca of cpe, school committee, etc. why are we so full of alcoholics? we spent years in 5à7 making contacts, after having spent years drinking (and more) bc no future. i know people my age who do drunk triathlons.
work 80 hours in front of a deep fryer, sapoud.
everyone knows that the poor mismanage their money anyway. the less you give them, the more you avoid waste.
it's worse, they prick themselves in bechamel sauce!
how many years of seniority? i do 14.5 at my mcdonald's
mcdo is one of the rare fast food restaurants that i respect because:
\ - he seems to be the one who does the most for his employees
\ - the standards have remained similar for several years
bin lol.
it's ok to pay 13.50 because the employee is pocketing tips. i halucine.
what happens if you do 1 shift and you decrease with the premium
do 40h / week in an ithq sapoud internship!
it's not even hidden, he explicitly told the journalist in the radio-can article linked in another comment.
for doing both jobs, server is incredibly easier. no idea why they're the ones who make the most money when it's the cook who makes the reason you go to a restaurant.
legit, if you told people that they could not pay a tip by going to get their plate in the kitchen, the majority of people would.
you ask for tip to subway mtn, his empire
put the plate on the counter and go get it caliss
i went a few times and oh boy will have to sort it out. half are rendered pure dompe. i'm not against paying when it brings me something, pleasure, discovery. but the $ 40 meals for real sloppy shit ... i don't do a scene, but i build a list of places i never go back.
i understand the increased prices. the products, the workforce, etc. but if you take the opportunity to pass me a quick one ... goodbye.
glad to hear it, keep it up
yeah it's night i think 15.50 evening and 14 and day
true, any job with no self-respecting experience hires at $ 18-20 since the pandemic, and if you're lucky you won't work at night, on friday or saturday evening, and in cramped space on the big one nerve as in a kitchen.
where i recently worked, a lot of people came to work who came from the restaurant business, cooks in a big restaurant, manager of a cage, etc ...
they took a weekday shop job, with paid over time. the work is hard for sure and it's hot in the shop in the summer, but you have your evenings and your weekends and you don't have to manage the public and you have to pay $ 20 +, almost certain that none of them will go back to do that afterwards, so there will be a lot of people running out in the restaurants!
man, can i get the stock that you smoke? solid hallucinator.
hmmm jen know a lot that would be crying if they lost their commissions
ban commissions? esti. never. i work exclusively on commission and have never made so much money.
[deleted]
maybe someone here could help me with the conversion, how much exposure does it take to make $ 850 for rent? my owner does not seem convinced.
worse, the triathlon is also capital. in fact, the mindset is that being able to say that you do whatever competitive sport is most important. because the ultimate goal is the standing that comes with it, not the achievement itself. why you have this kind of drunk triathlete paradox.
step 1: find a log
step 2: paint the log
step 3: profit
is it a supreme log?
it's not a log, it's an old hydro pole. that's why it's expensive too
269$ is a steal. that stool took about 100 years to make
lord, this is theft!
the worst part of all this is that:
(1) my sister bought a similar one
(2) everything is imported from asia
i've seen it in luxury furniture retailers. it doesn't have any good blood.
imagine the price of a cord of wood if your log sells for $ 300
its better than bad, its good.
then we say that money does not grow in trees.
where?
yes, but have you seen the price of wood? / s
it comes back dear to make a fire
the rope is expensive.
a few months ago i saw a "decorative log crate" on wayfair. stai like $ 79 for 4 logs in a small wooden box of apples.
kind ok, they were "beautiful" logs and they were clean but ... sacrament ... give me 15 min, an ax and 1 piece of sandpaper and i'll create 15 logs for your cabin decor. sugar for instagram.
[pouahahahahaha](
at this price, it's better to be pure hazelnut
they forgot the comma, it's just $ 2.69 actually
wow i made a millionaire at the chalet!
they reduced the price because they accidentally added too many coats
me, i took two logs of black pine, i sanded and varnished one end and put wheels under the other end. there you have it, two coffee tables for my living room. i had no idea that i had saved so much money!
at deserres, they sell a [slice] ( of $ 25 log!
me who just fell 5 trees i'm rich lol
the rope is expensive
ah well finally, contrary to the saying, money grows in trees.
well, imagine the price of a log in a lounge of the frontnac chateaux where they serve shots of spells and appetizers ... in the end, the price is a function of desirability. it is a straight log, it has a value in accordance with its principles.
well no!
made in china? 🤔
[deleted]
jen can see all of this. it must sell if it still works but the world is stupid
[deleted]
it is so wasteful! it's expensive just because it's an acacia that grows in africa.
ta-bar-fucking-nak!
it's for sale on the set i imagine?
let's see.
get lost.
he makes a french chain
there is really someone who is going to see this and say to themselves: ok i buy. good price
* facepalm *
ok quebec, i have drift wood, by the barge full, instead of a barge of salvage being worth.... say... 300,000 if i paint it black in 24 inch lengths for  art/seating, it becomes worth 3b? right... ouf.
\#minimalist
269 ? whattttttttt
looks exactly like a thing french white people would waste money on lol
these are purchases for the women of the city who have never left the rmm. worse, the friends are not better, they accept ...
at the price that the wood is returned, are you sure it's a profit?
/joke
you are missing a step.
* step 1: find a log
* step 2: paint the log
* step 3: ???
* step 4: profit
rinse and repeat, get rich.
how easy it is to make money! 😁
step 1: take the log out of the fire
step 2: profit
it dlair "burned" more than painted. which probably even cheaper, tbh.
you forgot to sand could have finished before finishing;)
stonks
there is a self-burn side to this meme, given that dwight is by far the most conspiratorial character in the series :)
it has always been part of the government's strategy. caricature their opponents, pass them off as extremists ... yes there is a minority of * troublesome * who are also against the caq (and all measures), but some have reasonable criticisms to make and do not want to to be insulted.
chalice ostia, yes ... it's like the anti-curfew protest that attracted the fuckés of qanon.
go go the go-gauches of quebec! i'm proud of qs :) as long as i'm in a meme, angela is not that bad, especially compared to dwight :) we get screwed from the start and the caq is openly nostalgic for duplessis' time. long live multicultural, francophone and socialist quebec!
and, what do i do if i live in a qs fortified castle?
qs = conspiratorial? not sure...
the word conspirator doesn't mean anything ... the number of times i have been called a conspirator here in the past year for criticizing the caq.
welcome to the club!
i am extremely curious as to who the conspirators will vote for if duhaime does not win the leadership of the pcq. according to them, the caq is the third reich, the plq is a corporate party and the qs / pq are "left radicals". maybe they won't vote.
hope they don't!
lol! i recognize myself in this meme.
when criticizing has become conspiratorial, it's pretty sad.
good meme tho
damn good granny
osti that i laughed.
like when i say that i am in favor of the curfew if it makes it possible to alleviate the sanitary measures of the day. automatically, i agree with 250 people in a place of worship in the red zone according to those who answer me. and yet i am the first to complain about this silliness of giving privileges to religions when the rest of the world we barely have the right to speak to anyone other than the cashier at the convenience store.
what does any of this mean???
plots need so much attention
yes yes the conspirators and "fans" of qs are very comparable lol
exactly!
as a qs supporter, there's no trouble haha
if you want that to change ... and if we remove the damn curfew, you will have to put your prejudices and your political allegiances aside and come and take part in the demonstrations even if ...
no. just fucking no
thanks for that, i laughed a lot!
if you want that to change and we remove the damn curfew, you will have to put your prejudices and your political allegiances aside and come and take part in the demonstrations even if you don't like certain people who participate in them. it's really boring that there are people a little too far to the right and toothless in the lot but to have been there i swear to you that there is now a majority in there who are just normal people who are fed up with worse who just want more flexible rules and better living conditions for their children at school. it is not by dividing us and creating separate demonstrations that we are going to make things happen.
i criticize the caq a lot, and i still think i will vote for ms. laforest in the next election, i feel a lot like dwight here
except he's the first to arrive with a hazmat follows when pam arrives with lice. it is not anti-mask ;-)
i haven't listened to the series, i'm waiting for the quebec version. like district 99!
if you disagree with all of the measures, you are against science.
legault learned to use the bully pulpit
i often have the impression that we do not have the right to be in the "center". i am for the measures but i think that to give the right to people to skate but not to play hockey before christmas is ridiculous.
i am ashamed in esti when i see the flags of the patriots at the demonstrations of covidiots ...
important correction: the anti curfew demonstration was organized by fuckés from qanon.
i think we could play on the french heritage and their good old progressive and insurrectionary traditions :)
"what? the '' cancel culture ''? do you know how the jacobins '' canceled '' the little screeches of bourgeois like you, back in the day? ein? well that's it! ”
i clearly see a multiethnic and francophone quebec, but multicultural and francophone, how? this is a real question and i truly hope for an answer from you.
> the caq is openly nostalgic for the time of duplessis
i found myself defending the caq because i often find that the reviews on this sub just don't make any sense, but here i would like you to explain it to me.
dupplessism is a conservative doctrine, therefore right-wing and ultra-catholic. how does the caq compare to that exactly?
qs couldn't stand amir attaran's words the other day? i don't want to vote for a party like myself ...
yes sir!!! a left-wing quebec is a quebec for progress, the future and prosperity.
you're going to get bombarded with a downvote.
it is a sub of caq pro law 21 who cries every time someone bash the qc. worse, when they realize that legault does anything, they are afraid of being compared with "fans" of qs. poor little ones ...
do we bother you that much?
you vote to signal your opinion. it costs like 1 hour per 4 years. it's not that bad.
move from rue de normanville or stay on it but go up closer to villeray
where is a qs fortified castle? just curious
either you think like them or you put up a camera to protect your tank from vandalism
according to lgros equals, ti gab du bois is a feck conspirator ...
> we don't know anything about the long term
speaking of the effects of the vaccine.
> canada is also one of the countries with the most abusive health measures
disinformation
>in québec, a judge just denied an appeal to remove the curfew...  
>  
>yep smells like corruption
literally conspiracy.
and that's just in the last 5 days. lol you're not being called a conspirator because you criticize the caq, it's because you are a conspirator.
[deleted]
has it ever meant something in the context we know?
> ** conspirator **
> said of someone who challenges the commonly accepted version of an event and seeks to demonstrate that it is the result of a plot fomented by an active minority.
what conspiracy in particular? there are real ones and some fake ones. the version of the word that is used in the media and in the comments is too generic and rather used as an insult to trolls / misinformed people. i don't understand why the word is even used.
the other conspirators, i don't know, but i will vote the conservative party regardless of the leader.
me too !
thank you
thank you
pleases
except that it does not alleviate the daytime sanitary measures, that is the problem.
learn french ... joke haha.  it means that when i criticize the government people on the left and people who are into  conspiracy theory  think that i am part of their group but i am not.
the tenant just has to pay for a coffee and a muffin less per day.
/s
tabarnak is that legal?
yo, the day that is good i stall the fire in a bit of a hurry thank you ...
holy shit is the cost of a mortgage, even then the monthly cost of a mortgage must be quite considerable.
my landlord has decided to increase from $ 850 to $ 950 (10%) which is much more than the tal recommends (3%). i called the tal to complain but because the building i live in was built less than 5 years ago, the owner has the right to put any price that wants and the tenant has no power against : pay or move.
absolutely ridiculous.
it is the new standard in the maritimes. i posted in english on another sub. it was an owner discussion group that was unveiled by acorn. i also responded to a discussion about affordable rent in halifax.
i moved to moncton 5 years ago, i bought several duplexes with the profits from my montreal condo.
for 2 years, house prices have almost tripled here since covid because 10,000 new arrivals from quebec and ontario have decided to come here at the same time ... rents have skyrocketed.
this is good for me but the residents of nb earn very little in salary compared to quebecers and ontarians ... so many end up on the streets ..
cursed capitalism ...
they are sick to the head.
here is a similar case in new brunswick: 
likewise question: is a sheet of paper stuck on the door with the mention "notice served" really valid? the owner technically has no proof that it was received and read by the tenant.
in quebec, the renewal notice provided by the management includes a line that the tenant signs when the landlord hands him the sheet.
being the tenant seems to me that i would play the innocent and try to pay $ 850 on december 1st.
trudeau has done a lot to make housing affordable / s
i thought there was a limit for the rent increase ??
even if there is a new contract ☹️
the landlord probably just want to evict the guy. i don't think he's expecting to get that amount lol.
wow did blackrock inc. buy your building????
oh my god
there are not enough apartments and houses in the market. there are too many buyers or lessors for the number of buildings.
we would have to flood the market with new buildings to bring down the market price. i think that's the solution for this crisis.
in ontario, rents can only go up 2% per year. isn't it the same in quebec?
pis fuck you.
merry christmas!
in fact, even in quebec, it is completely legal on new construction for 5 years.
but in this case ... we don't know the story behind it and whether it is a unique case or not ...
new brunswick does not have the economic wealth comparable to other provinces, so that kind of increase can work.
\> the average salary for new brunswick jobs in canada is $ 32,175 per year
well below the canadian average at $ 46,370
and we do not know if it is legal, if we read the comments, it would not be in ontario or in quebec for that matter on buildings over 5 years old so it remains to be seen if they have the bottom of the laws against this kind of maneuver ... i wish them!
what were the renovations to justify its? white marble counter? ... hardwood floor but import from italy? you just have the right to increase 10% of your reno ... 100,000 $ reno its must make such a beautiful apartment
unless: p
they must be damned happy to see a bunch of ontarians show up and make the prices jump without any common sense.
wow, wow, woooooooooow, if that's not criminal, i'm going to light myself a joint in front of a police station.
this should be illegal...makes me sick to think people are allowed to do this. :(
wtf
in quebec, it would be easy to dispute the increase. i hope they have those kinds of resources there.
it should be a federal crime.
jose doesnt understand the law
ayoye
weird to display it like this. isn't that done by mail, usually?
that’s what happens when you live in a province without rent control, sadly.
not sure about quebec but that’s not legal in ontario. you can only increase rent by a small percentage. if utilities were included in rent then they stay that way.
certainly it is legal even outside quebec since there seems to have been a signed contract (at the lease i imagine). not bad everywhere, even if specified as a clause, a party cannot unilaterally modify the terms of said contract (otherwise, what is the purpose of a tse contract).
time out guys. i don't need an iphone every time the battery is dead ???
my apartment owner will be very sorry that i'm rich
$1800. is the average price here in vancouver
[removed]
what fuck 😵
gtf
nope.  10% max hike per year on rentals.
they can’t raise the rent that much in one shot. new owners or not if you are still the current tenant. it’s illegal on a lot of levels.
this is because of the cries of tenants who agree to pay exorbitant rents for housing, without any solidarity for the other poorer tenants who cannot pay. it's a shame.
that’s rape. i don’t speak this language but why do they allow this to happen for commercial property , i have a rental
and i would never be able to increase rent that much so quickly. ?
how is this allowed, who can afford this. completely ridiculous
lol... just nope..
this is illegal 😂 can’t increase rent like that lol
and that is why the regie de logement is there.
um, i really can't believe this is legal regardless of where in canada oo.
that's illegal though
i'm not french so i can't read this but that notice is bs wtf hope stuff goes well for you
no way, josè
are you going to let go of the dogs? or the bees? or dogs with bees in their mouths that throw bees when they bark?
with the voice of edgar fruitier?
excellent!
deploy the cup-ox!
but no, he sends the oxen.
for a moment i thought steven guilbault. i was confused.
the robotics aerobics teachers!
the curfew didn't start at midnight on saturday?
did you say "boo" or "boo-urns"? lol. i like mr. burns.
guilbault, it's mr burns. not able to feel this woman. she believes herself to be so superior to us.
do you think he will lose the weight he gained from eating his emotions the big joke?
do you think the nightwalkers they will see the cleps and come out with "koliss skil est wholesome 100 keanu reeves ste doggo pupper goodboi lò"?
unleash the robotic richard simmons!
yes my beautiful little boy!
it's not a new year's eve
non a 20h
ta yeule
kosse you say the big one?
omg tes tlm meta big
so it's your business esoteric.
i imagine him as a robot from superman 2.
the nightwalkers are the guys who challenge the curfew
his metagame is on another level
yep i understood why i got downvoted on the reddit
because you write in russian on a quebecois subreddit.
i would have put the white tiger
* portuguese tarts *
lol! i love! 🤣
wouahaha! it's excellent!
and to think that the new sub rules would deprive us of its ...
my lightning rod is horacio!
yet he does not listen to what horacio says and does in his own mind instead of following the recommendations of public health ... he must not like him that much
based
have \ * edited \ *.
no iron fassille less than 2 orthaugraffe fôtes en 1 fraze ...
it is on the other arm that, it must remain secret.
worse sharks.
delicious in tab!
cream!
what rules?
i don't know why they tampered with the photo in the media, here is the original.
i guess it's clearer like that;)
you seem to have made a math error in your calculation of upvotes, it gave you a negative answer
right below the heart with her sister's name in it
what did they tamper with? the picture. it is placed after, so tampered with does not match. call me bernard pivot.
the past participle with "to have" does not agree in this sentence
trafficked *
criss that not everyone can write.
i find this fascinating as an american to follow this sub. because it seems to me, that there’s a unique cultural minority predominantly in one province. that no other canadians seem to respect, while asking them to partake in canadian culture more broadly speaking...so, it’s akin to me, of something like ulster irish, and the irish. it sounds odd as an outsider just observing that an ulster irishman, says he’s different than an irishman. superficially they are similar. but, they are very different cultures. therefore it’s a unique ethnicity. in a lot of respects. 
it seems strange to not acknowledge that singling out a minority who’s subject to discrimination, in a lot of ways, to not be racist is a little weird. without first acknowledging that you’re exercising some privilege by asking in the first place. 
for me i’d never *expect* an african american to not be racist. he’s got every reason to have zero respect for white people on the whole in my country. we’ve treated black people terribly for centuries. i would ask that he give me a fair chance to help myself and himself to make it better. i’m probably not changing any hearts and minds. but canadian’s racism discussions are vastly different than ours. i mean we have people in government who think black and brown people shouldn’t even vote or be in the country. i can’t drive anywhere in the south without seeing confederate flags every other mile.
sorry for not speaking french. i speak french a little bit. i understand more than i speak. my french is so-so.
honest question, is there another province (provincial government), apart from quebec, that refuses to admit systemic racism?
we must admit that xenophobia extends further than racism. there are too many francophobes in canada, including or qc !! "i rather learn spanish" (and never learn spanish) "french is too hard" (prefers to complete three university degrees and complain about not finding a job in their field) ... also want to complain if a politician has french citizenship, but any other citizenship is not a conflict (united states, united kingdom, etc.) because they ignore that france has abandoned us !!!!
1st and 2nd world war:
* anglos: " why u no fight nazis to defend your cousins in france?"
* francos: "they abandoned us !!"
* anglos: "you say what now?"
maybe not the best time for memes to minimize
[discriminatory remarks: two nurses from the clsc de joliette dismissed] (
fuck quebec bashing. but i still find it really shameful that quebec is the only canadian province whose government does not recognize the existence of systemic racism. i can't wait for the caq to decide.
there are also on the other side. read the comments under the articles of bock-côté, jdm and even the facebook page of the bloc québécois. racism, islamophobe, they are everywhere.
* mdr i am negavoté but i received no answer. this is exactly what i meant
we cannot say that quebecers in general are racist.
on the other hand, we can say that almost everyone is at least a little racist.
why do you give it to us? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
we could replace "racism" by "corruption" and it would be the same thing
i am an anti-mongolian federalist.
instead of messing around with a problem from the 60s, we can you just talk about other things caliss, there are like tons of problems present at the level of transport, environmental, economic and the only thing you wastering your time is is on a concept / definition osti!
tabarnak, you have a lot of free time ciborium
there is no racism in canada, if you want to see racism go to china, or any country in asia
you should take some and leave some. this sub is not representative of most québécois' opinion on canada and canadians. a minority of québécois are separatist and anti-canada, a minority of anti-quebec in the rest of canada. the vast majoirty of people don't care where you're from and what your mother tongue is.
may i ask why do you follow this sub? i found it curious that an american follows another country/regional sub.
> .so, it’s akin to me, of something like ulster irish, and the irish. it sounds odd as an outsider just observing that an ulster irishman, says he’s different than an irishman.
an interesting analogy, except that it's the reverse of ulster protestants who are not the majority and were not there first...
for me, racism is racism. i don't subscribe to the there can be *good* racism. because then it means that can be *good* sexism, or even *good* domestic violence (''he or she deserved it'')?  
  **“in the eyes of radical leftists, we blacks are like children, hurt and tossed about by history and unable to get out of it. it drives me crazy! "**   
\-glenn loury
hi, i am african american. i just want to say that i am not racist towards white people. while i received a lot of racism from white people growing up in a rural, predominantly white area, my best friends were white as were my neighbors. i think the majority of white people in the united states are not racist and are fighting for minority rights in the united states. i have a lot of respect for white people just like i respect all other people.
one can ask african americans to not be racist...to other non-white americans/canadians
dude, if a black man was to have no respect for a white dude because he's white, that would be hella racist and his black ass wouldn't be better than all those whites slaves owners that were racist back then.
>for me i’d never *expect* an african american to not be racist. he’s got every reason to have zero respect for white people on the whole in my country. we’ve treated black people terribly for centuries. 
that's no excuse, it even falls within the bigotry of low expectations. you shouldn't tolerate or make justifications for bigotry. an "african-american" racist is just a racist, there's no difference between him and a klansman. you will never fix racial division in the us if you keep making excuses for black supremacists.
well speaking as someone who speaks both french and english, ho has lived in and out of province, i can tell you its bad both side for those who make a mole out of a mountain and good on both side for those who could care less. you have canada telling quebec to partake in canadian culture while they demand that their language must be imposed nationally in federal public jobs while many quebecors couldn't be bothered to learn english. just as plenty of anglos living in quebec refuse to learn french. ive seen plenty of examples. both side make good points and both side are in the wrong in my opinion. i get they want to help their culture survive yet they go about it the wrong way as does the rest of canada with quebec. its a mess best not to get involved lol
correction: i have not seen that the auto-correct has to change quebecois for quebecors. sti d'bordelle of shit
this sub is very nationalistic and biased, essentially a sovereignist echo chamber. do keep that in mind as you read it.
this sub is a separatist echo chamber. take it with a grain of salt.
bruh. you absolutely should ask everybody to not be racist. i'd ask and incel to not be sexist even though he was hurt by women on the past. like tf? quebec loves to play victim cause they are nationalistic and it drives their provincial politics. but the rest of canada likes quebec and wnats them to be treated fairly. also ironically, quebec is the province with the most consistently racist populace. maybe on par with alberta.
i live in quebec, trust me quebec deserves all the hate its getting, the government of old bastards who currently rule us don't really care about the english, keep giving the language police and other departments like them more and more money, please rest of canada, male quebec sign the canadian constitution and treat every one, not just english and not just french, with equal rights and respects, please
the only 2 provinces that refused to admit it were quebec and ontario, but doug ford had withdrawn to finally admit it.
tse, fucking doug ford. it is frankly embarrassing for quebec and it still gives people ammunition to hate quebec.
i do not understand the world who think that to admit systemic racism is to break the sugar on the backs of quebecers, the rest of the country recognizes it in them ??! and it's not even a north american problem, even in europe we talk about it!
maybe the other provinces all recognize it, but it is just a buzzword if they do nothing to fix the problem. without having recognized it by name, the government of quebec launched a committee on the issue which made its recommendations, devoted a ministry to the fight against racism and the government reacts to each reported incident so that there are consequences for them. people perpetuating racism. what have the other north american jurisdictions done since the george floyd case? a big fuck all.
no one in quebec is going to officially recognize systemic racism, because the people who demand this recognition are also the same people who believe that bill 101 is intrinsically a racist law, that the quebec nation does not exist, that it is only 'a whim of ethnic exceptionalism resulting from a supposed white supremacy specific to quebecers. all without regard to our historical journey, our minority status or the 300 years of british rule from which we have been trying periodically to extricate ourselves since 1837.
yes, but what is the caliss of the use or not of a word by a fucking * politician * with the supposed congenital racism of quebecers as a people. i mean if the conservatives were in power and their leader refuses to use a specific term, would the canadians be happy to be told all the wind that they are all big dirty racists? ?
it's like the worst dehumanizing insult you can give to a people. to say of a people that they are criminals or retarded is the one who launches the accusation the loser. cry racism, you bring the height of the odious to these people there.
maybe the problem is that it's based on an anglophone concept that no one is able to explain what it is effectively in french?
[deleted]
no, and i'm glad quebec didn't. i don't want us to recognize that 2 + 2 = 27. all the media pressure behind this concept is just an attempt at cultural, ideological and ultimately intellectual domination.
i reject the concept of systemic racism because, to date, no one has been able to demonstrate to me that it is an operative concept, that is to say one that really allows us to understand relationships. in addition, this concept will never help me convince anyone to question what they think.
it is a rash accusation that is meant only to discredit. it does not therefore have to have any meaning, it only has to be repeated 1,000,000 times to make it enter people's minds.
there is racism in quebec, i have lived it, but the concept of systemic racism is absurdly encompassing. institutional racism, yes. systemic no, and no it is not the same thing.
racism is * institutionalized * in quebec, it is not * systemic *. systemic is when racism is legislated, legalized, implemented by the system. for example, in the usa in the 1950s, the regulations and laws that prohibited blacks from going to university, sitting in the back on buses, not using white toilets.
another example is the systemic sexism in saudi arabia which until recently prohibited women from having a driver's license. that's it, systemic.
institutionalized racism is when a group or a certain milieu acts racist because it is in their mentality or in their culture. like here.
the term systemic is used with an ideological aim of victimization and it defines the province and all quebecers as racist, which is in fact absurd.
there are so many definitions that we know which one we are forced to accept so as not to be seen as a racist.
i find that shameful too, but let's say that to say that there is some and nothing to do afterwards is quite equivalent.
the problem with fixing the problem of systemic racism is that you have to increase the social safety net and reduce the inequalities to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities.
definitely not a politician from the rest of the world who said there is systemic racism, who is going to do anything about it. yeah, justin, i'm talking about you in particular. this is hypocrisy and it should not count as people wanting change. it should be denounced at the same level as our aunt legault and definitely, it should not be a source of pride for the roc to say that it is progressive.
what many people do not understand is that admitting that quebec has a problem of systemic racism does not mean that quebec and quebeckers are racist.
on the other hand, refusing to admit that there is a problem of systemic racism, when the examples pulullate, that borders on racism itself, because it is to say to the victims "stop complaining, you are exaggerating" .
when the problem of the 1960s is resolved, we can surely move on.
????????????
i don't think it's wrong or unjustified to point out that there is a lot of anti-québec sentiment coming from the other provinces as well, if not outright francophobia in some cases. sure it goes both ways, but the problem is that there are very real examples of discrimination happening on the basis of your province of birth or spoken language depending on where you are in the country. 
take [this story]( from a man who had his bus tickets invalidated by alberta bus drivers because it was printed in french, for example. he even received death threats from people just for asking that his legally-purchased tickets be recognized by employees. there's strong anti-french/québec sentiment in parts of canada.
we can be sovereignists without being anti-canadians. in fact, i do not know of any truly anti-canadian sovereignists.
i don't feel canadian, it's that simple.
this comment is dead on.
yeah a lot of people in their 50´s and up are separatist. as a french canadian, to me it make no sense to create even more separation than there already is
haha j’apprends français. there are few subs with french speakers as active and as close to the us as this. je suis francophile. i can’t go to quebec. because of travel restrictions and i have a family. so, this is as close as i can get. plus your discussions are more interesting. or different than àmerican political/societal/regional discussions.
i know you didn't ask me, but i'm mexican and i joined because it's a great way to learn more french.
also, i went to quebec city in 2013 (i took french and philosophy lessons), and it was the best summer of my life. being here gives me great memories :)
i just lurk for your good memes :)
gatekeeping much. let it be.
correct. i was merely using it as an example. the history was secondary.
right, i’m not saying that, and i will edit my post. i’m saying i wouldn’t *expect* a black person in america to not be racist. it’s very difficult to tell people not to be racists while subjecting them to persecution...because it then becomes a « what about this » game. which nobody gets anything out of. all racism is bad, even when superficially the people look similar. perhaps that’s more xenophobic/jingoistic, than racist.
i didn’t say african americans are racist towards white people. i said, i wouldn’t expect them not to be. imprecise comment, generally not true, but it’s okay if it is for some people. and i wouldn’t blame them if they were. because that would make sense...justified ? no that’s not a justification, only an explanation. 
obviously i hope no one is racist. the overall point being, you can’t ask someone to not be racist while being racist. which is what the post is about, as it relates to canada. 
sorry for not having answered in french. it's weird for two americans to speak french ... we are all brothers and sisters.
i should’ve said *expect* instead of *ask* would’ve been more precise.
being racist is a big problem no matter your skin color. being black is absolutely not a valid excuse to be racist against white people. you're part of the problem if you are.
majority bloc?
2/4 in fact.
now someone has to do it in victoria ii and in after the end.
wait, everything is quebec?
curfew at 8 p.m. everywhere in america.
that's wonderful! i like to see other quebecers who play the paradox game!
i'm stuck on crusader kings 3 right now, i was on the verge of forming the hispania empire but calisse, my old king died before i could pick up the 3 counties i was missing, the estate gave the kingdom of andalusia to the second in line i lost too many counties to form hispania. so much rage.
i hope it is a catholic one faith too. and that quebec is emperor of the holy empire.
the french territory is called paris and mainly consists of farms, i do not know the game but well played, there is enough to annoy a french ahah
did you know: in fact, there was a time when the whole earth was quebec: this continent was nicknamed "pangea".
on heart of iron i had conquered everyone except brazil with the quebec empire
i am french and i adhere. 20/20
national ideas are interesting?
i like that the flag is that of the patriots.
i agree.
just lack the acute accent.
made quebec in stellaris now!
how do we play quebec?
i love it hahaha
too much red on this map. crusade!
long live tall quebec!
awesome lol.
do you have a guide for that? i'd like to try myself too, but i've never been able to defeat the colonial nations
i just want to have my own little corner of the world. i seem to have tats-uniens calling themselves québécois, i would cry quite a bit.
*sweats profusely in anglo*
what is the culture?
frankly, the most amazing thing that you got to finish the party
it would take a crazy blitzkrieg to pull this off
long live the free quebec!
authoritarian bloc arrived there
crusader kings it's gonna be a little harder
the galaxy in quebec in stellaris?
super boring in victoria ii, at least for me. the population is too small, and being surrounded by the gb + the usa, it is militarily infeasible i think.
after maybe a mod can improve the starting situation. in any case, i have always preferred to play immigration + assimilation and make a great industrial nation (thought of my part where 64% of the cars produced in the world came from montreal)
ps: for those who want to try, a little manipulation in the game files allows french canadians to be the only accepted culture (acceptable?) :)
civilization 6
🔫🧑‍🚀 it always has been.
your heir will have a strong claim on the kingdom of andalusia. maybe it's time to get revenge for the time you accessed your father's wine store and your little brother subsequently stooled you.
to date in ck3, the only empire that i have formed is that of carpathia, from hungary. i had added a difficulty with a conversion to one of the catholic heresies. i had also eaten poland and pomerania in this game, so that my empire extended from the black sea to the baltic. it made good civil wars between the kings heirs for the post of emperor. it was an interesting game.
i got tired of crusader kings, because of kings who die and who fuck your whole game!
the saint-sacramant of the quebec empire
the worst is that i could have, good idea next time!
quebec emperor of the holy empire is cursed not about
this is the europa universalis 4 game, a "grand strategy" game from the swedish company called paradox. in the game, many of the major european capitals are of the "farmlands" type of terrain because it is the easiest territory to develop.
why ? there were a lot of cultures, even in paris, until the 19th century. this is also one reason why the communards held a two-month siege by german and french troops.
historically, the seine basin is one of the most cultivated areas in europe. before the industrial revolution, france demographically crushed the rest of the surrounding countries thanks to its agriculture. even today the north of france is hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of fields, including outside paris and its inner suburbs.
why brazil
very interesting. it is one of the good colonial nations.
are not amazing but are correct and fit great with religious ideas
truly ! they forced themselves into their ideas. it's kind of coureur des bois, fortifications of quebec, seigneurial system, college of quebec etc.
the game ended in 1821, it is the only official flag of quebec until then!
the best is to start france, colonize and upgrade all your quebec provinces, after going bankrupt, release vassal and play in its place. after that your invincible!
the best is to start france, colonize and maximize the development and buildings of all your quebec and canadian provinces, after going bankrupt, remove the idea of expansion and exploration of france, release vassal and play in its place. after that your invincible!
try to use weddings to your advantage, i was able to have france and norway like that.
francien i believe
at one point it's just territory grabbing!
valentine not at a loss for ideas? the burger with doritos in it proves me the opposite
[deleted]
serious hydro should have said: "try to cook your poutine without electricity!"
the team that manages the maxi page is also not worse!
does it still exist valentine? well then
the cms of these pages must have fun in any case ahaha
you must not be the only one. i find that funny. worse my aunt ginette. worse my 8 year old too. and my 35-year-old sister. worse my father of 80 finds it cave. ye, the problem is, everyone expects things to be done exclusively for them. i call it the bye bye effect.
/r/hailcorporate
am i the only one who finds it super awkward when a company tries to look “chill” and “relatable” on the networks?
this contest would be handsomely electrifying. enough for valentine to start selling chicken * pylons * and for hydro to try a mega marketing project in michigan.
renewable poutine, you kick it up and then make a new poutine
if only the valentine's food was as good as their pr
silence, brand
osti the team up of death xd
ca pass on cooldad that 👀
i didn't think i would see my facebook comment end up on reddit.
the original post, for those wondering 
it would take a big machine but i'm sure i could blueprint a renewable poutine machine, cook it while you eat and add cheese to the sauce and fries under your current poutine.
* a renewable poutine * 😂😂😂😂💯💯💯💯💯
so there are redditor on cooldad lol, i rarely go on fb for a while but it adoner that i was there this morning.
i don't know what some have against valentine. don't have, it's not haute cuisine, but if i want a good snack, i choose that instead of la belle province and bellepros 100% of the time.
i didn't know valentine had such a badass social media rep.
that of hq is an osti of savage (in a good sense of the word)
semi off topic ... but have you ever seen wendy's twitter page? wendy's twitter rep is sick xd
well yes you hydroquebec need to pay a same lord on social networks like that and well the world will not switch to the 2nd option of electricity supplier.
/r/fellowkids, /r/hailcorporate, etc.
haha forgiveness? it exists?? i have dinner there
it looks very good
they didn't say their ideas were good.
you haven't tried it. it's their best deal on the menu since their founding.
"i'm a hip young individual, just like you! please buy my poutine"
how do you do fellow kids?
cooking fries and sauce on a good transformer fire, it's divine.
there are a lot of people who have gas stoves.
it would be too aggressive, no one wants to be left without power. it must be part of their joke limits.
yes indeed, it is the same marketing agency, lg2.
[lg2 valentine] (
[lg2 maxi] (
yeah and it's still not edible
i really do not understand why someone would go to valentine when the beautiful province exists.
especially since they work in the same place
ah yes it's true that it makes me want to subscribe to hydro!
> am i the only one who finds it super awkward when a company tries to look “chill” and “relatable” on the networks?
if hydro starts going on tiktok, i'll install solar panels.
most redditor comment i have seen of the day. what you have to understand is that they know that it generates more prints and more engagement so that's what they do. at one point you went around saying that your fries are good and your sauce is brown.
nope
it's cringe in criss. mostly from a crown corporation
it's still better than ashton.
jen knows people in this group too
or know cool dads. many former work colleagues are part of it
the meme lord is used to create engagement with the brand. maybe the trendy coolers will join the electric circuit or hilo instead of going to tesla and videotron for their electric tank and home automation. or maybe ginette won't turn on her water heater in a heatwave because the algos are going to make her pop more hq publications promoting energy saving measures.
it is used for that of the same lords for the corporation of the state. must see beyond its seed.
ouep 
i tasted it out of curiosity, it's currently not bad! the crunchiness of the doritos offers a different feel to traditional hamburgers and, the mixture of mayonnaise and green onions cut under them offered a certain freshness. i'm not saying it's haute cuisine, but from a gourmet point of view, it's interesting and worth trying.
cool kickflip bro!
yes, but in this case it's the valentine restaurants we're talking about. i don't know how many of them have gas stoves in their restaurant and you probably don't know either.
and also, it's humor.
... and hydro is also at lg2. it seems no worse arranged this case.
pros: a progressive, safe and multicultural country.
cons: a lot of people here speak french.
** ... [facepalm] ... **
worse, there is the audacity to appropriate our poutine the tabarnaques
first reason for me to visit canada? quebec. i can go to alberta, i live next to kansas. but i want a different culture. the frenchman is a pro for me.
“a lot of people here speak french” is a con? c’est quoi ce bordel?
tl;pl
pro : canada
with: québec
do we feel appreciated as a province
[  
they barely answered that, but honestly it sounds like a very "pr" answer.
the excuse seems to be "oh it was someone outside who wrote this and we don't approve of that," but still it got vetoed and got published.
who would have thought that casual bigotry has consequences?
according to their site there are 4 million in quebec and the fur trade is one of our most important industrial sectors ... [for real.] ( -2dkw7_oug_k90dlhl0)
i look forward to hearing our mps speak out on this issue!
donc “friendly canadians” mais “a lot of people here speak french.”? 
at least quebecers can speak both languages when they are not obliged to do so because the province has french as their first language.
not only is it fucking cave but for me if the country speaks a language that i don't speak it's so attractive, it's a golden opportunity to learn a language in a much faster and more efficient way than by taking lessons. to consider an unknown language as a cons is to show a great closed-mindedness of one and two of a certain intellectual laziness.
many people there can stay at home.
speak white
the irony of the juxtaposition of "great food - just try our poutine!" and "a lot of people here speask french" did not go unnoticed to me.
"try our poutine, just don't order one from a francophone"
lmao
well normally i am not a sovereignist for a penny. but seeing that, i admit that i'm starting to think about it ...
lmao on their site, he mentions '' fur trapping '' as a leading industry in quebec.
it's also full of bad information.
damn that is unkind. worse yet, they cite the poutine as if it wasn't from quebec!
they were made to remove the tweet (reported for racism) and issued an apology. it had been hanging around since the end of february.
i’m an anglo canadian and found the last con incredibly stupid. how is it a con, wtf. what a strange mindset.
majority block! / s
this company does not help people who want to immigrate to quebec (just other canadian provinces) ...
"quebec has a specific process that includes acquiring a quebec selection certificate (certificat de sélection du québec, or csq), which signifies that you have been chosen to settle in quebec...we are therefore unable to assist with the immigration process; however, we are able to assist with your travel documents that will allow you to explore everything this stunning province has to offer. we can help you navigate your way to canada!"
[
(ironically, the last sentence seems to imply that quebec is not part of canada.)
so speaking french in canada is a con? ah bin tabarnak! i thought the whole idea was to promote bilingualism!
and the people who work in marketing study for that
an idiot, a multicultural and progressive fellow, and a bigot walks into a bar ...
go try our great poutine but don't speak to the french who created it lol
what a rude poster! i wish i knew how to speak french. solo hablo espanol 🤷‍♂️
i posted it in r / onguardforthee, the thread was active and it got locked / cleared in under an hour.
source?
aynayduh
if some people feel like going to express their dissatisfaction: 
i'm sorry, but food is not that in canada ....
it can't be serious ....?!
stu me where the post was removed from r / onguardforthee? it appears more in the feed.
there was still room in the right rectangle, they could have added:
cons: a lot of people here aren't all that white
office of the commissioner of official languages for canada: the law proclaims english and french as official languages of the canadian federal state.
well done mdc canada! even the ceo is [apologizing] ( and he speaks french.
that's it, i've never been able to canada.
does canada always take it as if those who invented poutine?
honestly, the crowd who are going to immigrate to vancouver / calgary thinks like that no matter what we announce.
i am told by a hong kong woman whose parents came to canada to have her naive here in order to have her obtain canadian citizenship something like, "what do they think while waiting for french to be spoken in quebec, tch . we're in canada after all. "
my moment in the spirit of the staircase is that i missed the opportunity to answer him, "oh yeah. how hong kong is part of china?"
wow, what a bunch of assholes, the people who wrote that.. incroyable 😔
imagine immigrating to canada just to land in toronto.
“yay we have multiculturalism!”
also: “booo! multicuturalism because french!”
i'm anglo, but that's just hypocrism, hugs tabarnac ôsti cris. in addition, look at all the bad words in french that are fun to say!
ouille moi itou when the pm of the province was leader of an anti-francophone party
the tweet has been removed.
free healthcare mehhh yes and no to an extent
free education yea till grade 12 lol
well who doesn't come if they are not happy criss
the only way to convince someone to go to toronto is to say that montreal is rotten. it dates from the 70s.
in the idiots, they forgot: poutine outside quebec. 🤔
visa processing can take a while - it's an euphemism for quebec right ?!?!?!?!
free education? what canada is he talking about?
.... aaaaaand the already blurry line between r/quebec and r/quebeclibre just git a tiny bit blurrier.
"try our poutine!" ... and hoping it's not that of a valentine or an ashton ...
it is written "tôsse", calvince!
normal poo: i love it
distinguished poo: jcapot latsù
a beuhrré
protöss needs additional pine butter.
do you know that an umlaut (ö) ca is pronounced like an e?
you know that you are posh in esti when you say roast.
hahaha it's true that it doesn't taste as good if you call it a roast calisse
toast with a peanut spread
pene butter
don't underestimate the crunchy. for a long time i avoided out of habit or because there were a few more calories ... sadly wasted years ...
lifetime crunchy pine butter tôsse! : d
brown bread a little overcooked with a glass of milk
asti, i love these memes so much <3
toasted bread with peanut butter
it's pen beure.
it reminds me of ramdam.
i deduce that you do not use "pine" for "zizi" in quebec
i'm not so hungry anymore
to be fencé, you add ti pieces of bananas on it .... menoum
* an order of pinnote butter routies *
lolllllll
peen's drink.
what is töss? how do you say in english? and pine butter?
i may have said "pinotte" for more than 80% of my existence but "pinne" is superior and i will never come back
slice of baked bread covered with peanut butter
if you are from lac-st-jean it is written “towsse”.
> vince!
here vince with the slap chop! you will love my nuts!
tôsse au beure de peen. = pronounce beu-rr
and we don't say a tôsse, we say a tôsse
i have the doua jtun espert pass chu a tôsse
poo delux: criss ke this good
ain nordre de tôsses
battle pinotte operational
beuwr my biscuit.
you're right. but ... considering the guy is trying to spell an english word semi-phonetically as he pronounces it in québécois joual, why assume it's a german umlaut rather than a french umlaut?
it depends in which language, i know that in german it is an "eu" while in finnish it is "e"
you didn't say fuck my criss!
when we pronounce “routie” it's even better
it can't be said, peanut
tôss is the pronunciation of toast (bread toast). note that we do not pronounce the t at the end, and that the tonic is put on the o.
and pine butter means peanut butter, or peanut butter. it's just that we shorten the word peanut by pean, which is equivalent to pronouncing it like pine :)
ben there i pogne you! i come from the lake!
tôsse pis towsse ca is pronounced the same.
long live the lake
as in "towsse toé de d'la, you're dan'l chmin"
# it makes a lot of nuts
my dad says that. it took me really too long to realize it was <<an order> > in english
*nuclear munch detected*
for ayoye!
> why assume that it is a german umlaut rather than a french umlaut?
as far as i know, it doesn't exist but i may be wrong. do you know a word in french with an umlaut?
in the end, it's not more teuss than tess. it's tôsses.
ok thank you. do we pronounce tus or tohss? it's the umlaut, yes? not the umlaut? so, is it tohss, like "toast" in english? also, how to write? töss or tôss? also, peen butter means very different in english. lol
i'm not from the lake, but indeed, tôsse pi towsse, it sounds the same.
i am the champion! the champion of what? big, brown nipples?
tacobell tacobell free advertisement for tacobell
. . . ben tabarn. . .
score! we had it off !!! ah-hihiiiiiii! heille, anderson cuddle! tobacco! tobacco, we have it! yiyiyiyiyi! calvary of cuddly tabarnac! we have it, owl! eh? huh mary, cuddle? your lasagna was good in tobacco! ciborium of tabarnac! we - hee, anderson, ordeal, that's my cheek as a host! crisscross! tobacco! calm! it put that 2-2, ordeal, and cuddle it 3-2 in addition! heille – sti – we are going to – r – ah – heille, my, my chair, got me there, brought it to rue sainte-catherine, cuddle. tobacco! tabarna – heille, screech that d'da – heille – y'a – ah y'a – a-do-tu v-a-did you see that? have you seen this? have you seen this? ciborium! orgore it tabarnac! argargargargargôre! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy ... ciborium! was made ... gâ if it's easy! ost – tabarnac! gâ if it's easy! gargargargar-gôre, tabarnac! it's easy!! it fits like butter, like popa in moman. cursed côlisse! ... tobacco! tobacco! heille, a strong aut, côlisse! ... we kick a tabarnac!
good saint john
when i heard several of my neighbors shout with joy, i understood what was going on! go habs!
when was the last time the canadians made the stanley cup finals?
an osti of beautiful way to end the festivities of saint-jean, that!
it's going to be 6 a.m. here in france, and i received my dose of vaccine yesterday afternoon, so it was difficult to stay awake ... but damn boys, i don't regret having seen that in direct...
happy saint-jean everybody and go habs go!
at last. 28 years without even participating in a final is a long time.
but 8ieme finale 1976 @ 1979 1986 1989 1993 2021
i'm crying with joy right now! this is the first time in my life and i ca-po-te.
omg caliss i am not coming back !!!! i couldn't wait to live this experience and finally see the canadiens make it to the stanley cup final !!! it's a dream come true and my god it gives me hope !!! yessss !!!!
i ate pizza tonight. now i had the choice to eat it for the next 2 weeks.
happy birthday, kevin!
now is the time to appreciate it, encourage and believe in it. we do not know in how many years they will be able to repeat the feat.
when i heard several of my neighbors shout with joy, i understood what was going on! go habs!
was gasped 3 times in the city center!
it was worth it in tabarnac!
you are from tabarnac !!!!!
la la, i hope that bergevin will give his 6 million to danault!
king of the north! where is?
with each series, i told myself that they had no chance, that the other team was much better (on paper). glad to see i was wrong!
have you seen the fresh delivery of salt delivered to / r / leafs?
happy saint jean les boys, tabarnak what a good day today!
i'll have to follow hockey in the next few weeks! go habs!
go habs go tabarnac !! 🙌🙌
there is not much in the sky at night 🤠
the grind never stops !!
fuuuuuuuuck! we are really there!
my friend, who is deeply into hockey, feels emotionally invested now that the ch is in the final.
worse the covid… bin cest ca… enweille filled the balll center
with so much noise outside, i couldn't sleep tonight. fortunately, it's time off tomorrow.
enjoy!
letsss gooooo
gnd predicted it!
shoot-out at pacioretty 😂🤣
edith: piaf
looking forward to see ferrandez's next comment.
at the same time, it was st. john's day! by putting the skate on the ice that day, the knights had already lost!
all habs here in southern alberta last night and today. whole country is behind you guys on this. let's bring stanley home.
i hope we will win the final in 4
the mayoress would have to release a small budget to put screens in the parks, that would avoid too high a density in the city center.
ok question from a fuckall knowledgeable girl;
do the canadiens really have a chance to win the cup? like, is it a question of "well done, you went far but the adventure ends here for you" or if there is a real chance of winning?
because from the little i heard people were surprised at first when the ch started to win, it was an unexpected plot twist, an underdog story that stood out. but now who are there i wonder what exactly that means.
i never comment on r / quebec, usually, but seriously, i couldn't let that go!
i am 23 years old! this is the first time in my life that the canadiens are in the final!
my father and i are complete fans of the team. on the other hand, my father has a job that requires him to be absent like 1 month out of 2. he always takes his summer vacation between the end of may and mid-july for personal reasons. usually, it never allowed us to see the series at the same time, for as far as i can remember. so the unusual schedule of this 2021 season has given us an advantage in this case.
besides, we weren't sure we could see a game together, because he was supposed to come back to us after game number 5 against toronto! since montreal lost 3-1, we said to ourselves: good: another year without seeing playoff hockey together. we were convinced that montreal would lose the 5th game.
i think we all know the rest! i still can't believe it, i'm excited like i'm still a kid walking into a giant candy store!
go habs go!!!!!
i grew up in vegas and i was very happy when you beat that shit hole, congratulations quebec! hope you can win the cup.
uesssa
what a good christie meme.
do you have the video?
aha i relive the moment of this video
ah, my new favorite * copy-pasta *
score! we had it off !!! ah-hihiiiiiii! heille, anderson cuddle! tobacco! tobacco, we have it! yiyiyiyiyi! calvary of cuddly tabarnac! we have it, owl! eh? huh mary, cuddle? your lasagna was good in tobacco! ciborium of tabarnac! we - hee, anderson, ordeal, that's my cheek as a host! crisscross! tobacco! calm! it put that 2-2, ordeal, and cuddle it 3-2 in addition! heille – sti – we are going to – r – ah – heille, my, my chair, got me there, brought it to rue sainte-catherine, cuddle. tobacco! tabarna – heille, screech that d'da – heille – y'a – ah y'a – a-do-tu v-a-did you see that? have you seen this? have you seen this? ciborium! orgore it tabarnac! argargargargargôre! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy! gâ if it's easy ... ciborium! was made ... gâ if it's easy! ost – tabarnac! gâ if it's easy! gargargargar-gôre, tabarnac! it's easy!! it fits like butter, like popa in moman. cursed côlisse! ... tobacco! tobacco! heille, a strong aut, côlisse! ... we kick a tabarnac!
i may or may not have saved to make a quebec copy pasta.
asti yes !! hahahaha
the time spent transcribing it was time well invested 😎
finally, international recognition of the long campaign led by / r / quebec to have the obvious recognized. the poutine is quebecois. period!
it's a fairly well-known phenomenon that keeps repeating itself: le roc makes fun of a quebec tradition (here poutine) until the rest of the world realizes it's cool. all of a sudden, it is no longer quebecois but “canadian” and “they have always liked that”.
who eat the mustard crisp. the poutine is quebecois, period.
after having been robbed of the term "canadian" and "the maple leaf (92% of canadian maple syrup is from quebec" it is the turn of poutine.
>if they could make it look good on a flag, the maple leaf's days might be numbered
speaking of symbols of quebec
one day, i asked my franco-ontarian cousin (who is a cook) for examples of typical canadian dishes, but not quebecois. in the end, the best answer we found was "agricultural dishes".
so, if my anecdote is representative of reality, i would tend to say that canada appropriates quebec dishes like poutine because there is nothing else that is authentic.
(edit: grammatical errors)
in a restaurant in banff there is a poster that says "the best poutine west of montreal". when the waiter (a japanese) realized that we were talking about the poster with a laugh and that we were from quebec, he said: "please don't order it. it problemably won't live up to the hype". we laughed a lot and we replied "arigato, dude!" before ordering an elk burger! oh canada!
yé where the butt post on air canada?
every time i see an image of poutine with a huge canadian flag and no mention of quebec, it pisses me off. it has become the default symbol for international "canadian" food now.
the poutine is quebecois, period.
yes, but we are still forgetting the real debate. victo or drummond?
>it's often still the maple leaf that flies the flag for quebec's most famous culinary export.
considering that the maple leaf and red are also our culturally appropriate symbols, poutine is in good company ... better to laugh than to cry, as they say.
baah, they stole the beaver from us as our emblem, the maple leaf, the national anthem, and now they want to steal the poutine from us. the case is canada has no identity of its own. in the west it is a pasted copy of the united states and in the rest of canada they are looking for each other. even trudeau said, canada is a trans national country. you take quebec out of there, there is still much more as a culture. a little bit of the monarchy and a lot of the us.
i stopped reading after this sentence:
> la banquise, the city's poutine institution.
i, as an anglo-canadian who will be buried in nouveau, firmly and whole heartedly see poutine as a québécois dish. in fact i could say that by never having been to quebec and only having had bastardized anglo fries gravy and cheese i have not personally really had poutine. poutine is not a canadian dish it is a québécois dish and any one who does not agree is diluted.
leave it the same, it must make some anglo sweat when we tell them that the national dish of canada c dla poutine
moreover who are we poor fishermen to restrict the popularity of the dish
may fries around the world be blessed by squick squick cheese and brown sauce!
post this on r / montreal or r / canada, it will be very funny hahaha
poutine is a perfect example of cultural appropriation. steal a cultural icon from a people considered inferior and claim to be its source.
when you have no culture, you vampirize that of others
i love bbc 😏
it shocks me so much when i travel and see "canadian poutine" with a beaver and the maple leaf.
the "canadian" poutine is a cultural appropriation, change my mind.
what the fuck, j'adore la bbc asteur.
it is cultural appropriation.
speaking of poutine, was i unlucky or poutine in gaspésie is disgusting with a really sweet sauce ?? it was 3 in 3 when i went.
@ r/canada
true english people are on the safe side
beyond the poutine, you have a sacred land that is developing more and more. i came back from charlevoix with my girlfriend and what a beautiful region full of cheeses, cold meats and quality beers. long live new france!
i didn't think this was on discussion. for me poutine is quebecoise, period. i am brazilian and i lived in toronto for three months, and now i am staying another six months in montreal for an academic internship. it is impossible to eat poutine outside of quebec. the poutine in toronto that i have eateen was awful.
at last
be finally
small spelling mistake in the article, it's not "foie gras" but "foie gras".
> however, from the streets of prague to market halls in berlin, it's often still the maple leaf that flies the flag for quebec's most famous culinary export.
i saw a poutine stand at a festival in japan, and the only flag was neither.
[it was an american flag lol] (
that being said, if anyone finds any [carne asada fries] ( = 1536 & bih = 722) in mtl i am down in esti.
drummondville or victo? that is the real question. i have already eaten one in dunedin, new zealand, and there was some kwee-kwee cheese! [
who invented the poutine?
the roy jucep
in 1957, a client named eddy lainesse would have asked the owner fernand lachance to mix the cheese curds with the fries. genius! a drummondville restaurant called le roy jucep registered a trademark stating that it is the inventor of poutine.
people are even arguing this fact?
if it doesn't have cheese curds it's not poutine. ottawa chip tracks have some of the best.
not able to read it, it hurts too much inside.
wow thank you
little anecdote;
my girlfriend is from the toronto area;
going back to 2010 ... after a drunken night in the toronto bar region we went around the restaurants at the end of the evening ... to my surprise there is a place that people go to that serves poutine and that would be specialized in this one
i am very happy to be able to have my poutine from 2am, i order it and when i receive it ... grated cheese on fries ... with a little brown sauce ...
it is there that i understood that for the rest of the roc a poutine is cheese / potato / sauce but nothing more. (well it's widespread and nowadays they save that they have to use squicky cheese but it was a traumatic experience.)
we don't care what other people think, we know it's a canadian / quebecois dish.
i’ve always stated that poutine is quebecois. so many canadians hate on quebec but act like anglo canada invented poutine especially to americans. 😂 we should claim hawaiian pizza instead. 😂
>but tensions around identity are never far from the surface in canada's *only* french-speaking province,
hum...
ontario, new brunswick, manitoba, saskatchewan, nova scotia ????
i'm from ontario and honestly don't understand this thread. of course poutine is quebecois, it is well known and no one says otherwise. in fact, much of the canadian identity comes from quebec. so what? didn't quebec leave canada? why shouldn't the quebec identity fall into the same category as the general culture of canada?
[deleted]
nothing less than by the british colonial imperialists!
seriously it feels good to see that from a stranger.
absolutely <3
for me, it's so stupid not to specify the region, especially in such a big country. as far as i know, people say "new york pizza" all over the world, not "american pizza". they are "buffalo wings", not "american wings". if it comes from quebec and he doesn't like it, it's quebecois and if he likes it it's canadian.
they put cracker barrel orange commercial cheese in their poutine made with mccain frozen fries! canadian '' fine '' cuisine !!
i have nothing against your analysis but do you have another example? celine?
one day people will understand what a changing situation means.
normally reddit memes are collected on facebook and not the other way around.
the vaccination percentage has changed because the disease (and its variants) has changed, and herd immunity is more difficult to achieve. except that here we represent it with a child who wants his dwarf, and who reacts ... as a child.
i find it interesting that a probably anti-caq meme says a lot more about the mindset of its author than about the caq ...
[deleted]
it is very revealing that the conspis see themselves as children and the government as their father.
hello, the vaccination rate necessary to achieve collective immunity varies depending on the reproduction rate of the virus. unfortunately the delta variant has a higher reproduction rate.
here is more information if you want to learn more: 
funny how all the conspiracy theories of the past year are coming true one after another
do you know what sickens me even more about all this ... the people here who defend and justify the measures always and forever.
it's like when i had to be given $ 26 to become a pab, when i only have $ 20.55, and next april, so almost 2 years later, i'm going to be given $ 24.
there is not even one of the "traditional" vaccines (hepatitis b, hiv, etc.) which is close to 95% ...
i'm vaccinated and believe in it, but i'm forced to admit that 95% * seems * unachievable.
false analogy
school exams do not have variants or depreciating immunity.
with the delta, the situation has also changed ...
vaccination passport, vaccination of children, ridiculous target of 95%. the worst part is that they are going to add it. curfew? compulsory vaccination? passport for certain essential service? 3rd dose? all is possible.
the virus is sure to mutate. at some point it will be a strain for which the current vaccine will have no effect.
you might as well learn to live with everything.
if you have a brain and you're educated, you don't need the government to make your decisions. you will get your 2 doses quickly, you do your best to still protect yourself and others. 75% or 95%, it will not change anything for the people who took their responsibility and went to get their doses.
'' there are just the crazy people who do not change their mind ''
except when it doesn't suit you.
it's really rotten as a meme.
is it r / quebec?
75% of the eligible population ≠ 75% of the total population.
"we thought 75% was going to be enough, based on the data at the time. unfortunately, it doesn't seem like it was enough. the data is changing, we are adjusting."
meanwhile, the victims of / r / quebec are whining, as always.
who here is really prevented from doing what they really want right now?
ah right the world who do not want to be vaccinated in 2 weeks ...
taggle
i need to pay more attention in french class
soon the threshold raised to 105% then 115% to stop the virus
i find that funny. the meme is funny. i don't understand why everyone feels the need to defend the caq or attack it ... the joke is just funny ...
oui? i speak english but i'm in canada
r/dogfree
yes but there are variations in this equation ... ok, i'm leaving
pretty nonsense this 'government' which commands its population at the cost of some 400 decrees and as many internal polls.
should we be surprised that this is a new lie to pose before us by a tarré incapable of doing other than reacting to the 'ever changing situation' of science.
i received my two vaccines. i comply with health measures and have never caught covid.
we will have to tell the population that if they choose not to receive the vaccine, they risk dying. this is the chance they take.
although the beds provided for covid in hospitals for those who choose not to be vaccinated must be limited to the minimum to make room for real patients who have been waiting for two years to continue to live. cancers, surgeries and so on.
the sheeps who continue to believe in the good intentions of our governments. it does not have a price
when i hear people say that the government is lying to us, i like to remind them of the time it told us the truth and that the world panicked and we couldn't wipe our asses for 2 weeks.
so yes ... criss i hope he is lying to us.
i look forward to my 3rd dose by june 2022 and 4th thereafter.
eg that by taking a dose of each i would be more protected?
nooooon you don't understand bro the situation all the time bro please understand bro on will never go back to normal if we don't have 100% vaccination bro believe me bro the situation changes
covid is a game where you win points. when you have enough points you win prizes but legault always changes the rules :(. it's not a pandemic or experts and politicians trying to make estimates and adjust their policies by seeing how things unfold.
not the means
ha ha french words funni
(i dont know what this is saying lol)
best post to date 👍
i would be really curious to see the famous calculations carried out to arrive at the figure of 75% of vaccination necessary for the collective immunity. i am really skeptical of this kind of calculation.
do other states use the same kind of calculations?
is there any data showing that this estimate is actually able to predict the end of the transmission? or, is it a theoretical calculation with a very simple model not very faithful to the reality of a pandemic.
does it take into account transmission from vaccinated people?
do we take into account the immunity acquired by covid infection?
i feel like the answer to almost all of these questions is no. i am certainly not the only one who thinks that this kind of calculation is rather fraudulent. so even if the situation has evolved, it looks more like the government is using every possible argument to maintain the state of emergency indefinitely. above all, that a vaccination goal of 95% is not attainable, perhaps even with force.
i am officially vaccinating double dose on paper;)
when eric duhaime and the pcq make messages like this without understanding the nuances, it's embarrassing.
yep. science is not absolute dealing unlike religion and other stuff.
ok. except that there have been a lot of false promises. at this point, just get the real business told instead of giving the whole population false hope, tse.
at the same time even if it is true that they must adapt to this frustrating aspect of the hope of reaching a target and that it is over: /
strangely, it only evolves upwards.
this implies that they evolve themselves ...
i would also like the government to understand this and refrain from setting targets if it is for change.
judging by the quality of users we have had since the start of the pandemic, i believe there are quite a few facebook users who have picked up here.
facebook is more popular bin than reddit here.
/r/terriblefacebookmemes
hihi the mug looks like a minion lol
in quebec, the best memes are on facebook
the descent into hell of the heads slapped after their success of the 2000s is still difficult to watch.
they are hidden at the grevin museum
they seem to have a lot of chromosomes.
* “according to sergeant mattel, p. lay-doh and his accomplice pat fimo were having difficulty fitting into the mold.” *
2 showers even in the laurentians?
did the sq go to the shack in st-jerome, see?
* patamoglé
i bet $ 10 that their mothers will come and tell tva that their sons are good pasta. it's written in salt.
lea dividuu of dubious breed would have violated a white van
i want to see the comparison with the real faces once they find the smack heads.
hide the pain harold in head slap
[deleted]
[the article in question] ( research.php)
imagine the horror of crossing these two characters in your house at night.
i leave it here [ 4.3(
they look like slapping heads.
ordinary citizens of st-jérôme
i miss hand-drawn police sketches. these algorithm abominations are too uncanny.
a golem (hebrew: גולם, "embryo", "formless" or "unfinished") is, in mysticism and then in jewish mythology, an artificial being, generally humanoid, ** made of clay **, incapable of speech and devoid of of free will, shaped to assist or defend its creator.
the dude on the right looks like a young hide the pain harold.
hide the pain harold mais roux
individuals or individuals?
beavis and butthead!
the one on the right looks like tormund giantsbane from game of thrones
they look like characters invented by denis drolet ... doctor malice-volé and liche-carpette
** aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa **
meth, not even once
willy waller 2021
probably easy to find in los santos ...
> the laurentians
obviously
it's francois bellefeuille haha
have we interviewed gumby and pokey, just in case ...?
r / patamogle
i believe it's steve and kevin
imagine waking up at night and the one on the right is at the end of your bed watching you sleep.
if i bump into two individuals that look like this, i'm attacking them on sight before they breed and take over humanity.
they are indeed "dividus": they lack something to appear normal.
so the heads slammed were imagined from the robot portraits of the quebec police? fascinating!
the second looks like ed sheeran
shit there is so much smoke, we melted
we are looking for the bandits of home alone,
marv murchins
a bastard and a coke head!
wtf one of the dude is a fusion between ed sheeran and hide the pain harold
hide the pain harold's son has gone wrong!
[removed]
hey my friend!
i always knew that the statue of ricardo was preparing bad shots.
nothing has been going there since the announcement of the closure
this is what happens when your grandfather is also your father
21 for them were enough 😂
they may even be 3d printed
shten step
i'm about to sell my sweating patamogle internets.
these are my favourite things to learn about speaking french.
in english one could hear (often in ireland) "being after doing something". my hypothesis is that it influenced the french here by becoming "to be after doing something". fa 'que, i'm going to declare that it should be written "after". thanks for listening to my ted talk.
joual> verlan
these grannies always fill me with a proud sense of belonging, i love our dialect!
[c'est beau le joual!] (
or, in acadia "ch'en fais de"
as in the song of p'tit belliveau
"it's okay / no need to watcher the boats in the bay"
we are few to admit it, but our french is beautiful.
i went to suck me, i put my biding sout
i always have a weakness for "motte".
i'll go to you = mound
motte show that
'ma aller maller ma lett'
thats convenient !! me, i don't like "quatre vingt", i prefer "eighty" or "octante", too bad it's not in joual
men do not lfaire
for me, that doesn't beat the wonderful * me * contraction.
i'm afraid my ski-doo doesn't want to take off the osti!
a bin coltôre de géiboire
a ratapeux j'm'armouche.
shtaffa
ah, aja. i thought i was going to say that you were at the point of starting something but you hadn't always done so.
i was getting ready to / jtapour
and me who thought it was "i'm after ..."
worse it's fun how we use the coronations and the conjugation 
it reminds me of this winnie-granny that i made ammanné: [ chauffage(
ch't'en in the process of
c not after?
i saw my joual dewore.
"i am currently" this already translates into "j'ta" and a pause is missing after expressing his intention. i recommend this writing "j'ta ready"!
not to be mixed with "j'ta prète" which says "i was on the lookout".
lol remember when you judged alberta for not locking down
learn
i'm online for.
chtagne treigne
jesus marie joseph i laugh too hard
haha, méchant call back
really, it makes me happy to read it, i hear all the children in my neighborhood and my youth suddenly all of a sudden. it feels good!
same for me, browsing this sub has been way more valuable than i thought it would be
same. this one took some time, but it was a fun journey. although, i still can’t figure out “joual”?
it was present in old european french, however!
> in the 17th century, in european courts, the french language used this phrase: "i am ready to dance"
>  
>[
i agree with afterwards too. i imagine time signing means being “after an action has started” as opposed to getting ready to do something which means the action hasn't started yet.
[deleted]
[deleted]
moé with!
[the joual, these even more beautiful with metal] (
lea acadiens are too hardcore
tracadie sheila represented!
fo not that it loses itself!
by our house the ladies will put their braillets.
after that, a bizeball gam tit?
i'm going to * bang your stingray *
i'm going to * bang your stingray *
has me * swept the line *
m'at / m'ot * swept the line *
:)
me too, like ...
mound squealing my fist right in the face if you continue your estis d'niaseries!
the cameras have less of a deterrent effect than ms. thibodeau.
she pinched ears in the neighborhood
honestly i believe the us and uk image are reversed. and for mam thibodeau bin me in my time it was mrs. tremblay!
it's two beautiful years that i spent in shawi. truly! the sq is so relaxed, thanks to all madame thibodeau. first evening after the move there, mayhem at the atm on trudel ... the sq: `` good jacques told you not to sing in the counter ... people are not comfortable with that .... are you going to take you to your place or to la fouine? ''
fantastic. nice work in local mental health.
ps my keyboard is new and i can't do the bass accents. the other faults are just intellectual laziness.
context?
good good mrs. thibodeau spotted the neighbor's heune to smoke again!
i come from there. ask me your questions
the owner of my apartment lives downstairs from us (we are in a duplex). he is always in front of the window looking at the neighbors. during the summer he lands in front of the window without a t-shirt. it freaks out when you get home and there's a shirtless man (but who knows, the window cuts to the waist, so maybe completely naked) in the window lol
ps i'm in montreal, not even in the region
jean chrétien is from shawinigan. is that his mom?
we laughed, but during the cold war russian spies were being tricked into stashing their secret documents in public spaces by the old lady sceners by the window, who reported it to the cia.
i live there, it's still pretty accurate
neither george st-pierre nor captain america is matched to madame thibodeau when * to you *.
really, having been in london you must always have 4-5 cameras seeing you at the same time.
my interpretation: an elderly citizen keeping a close watch on the neighborhood with a scowl is a common sight in less-urban quebec. these people tend to know everyone and all the going-ons.
trivia: we used "scèner" as a verb and "scèneux/scèneuse" as a noun for those neighbor-curious people who spy in their free time.
i'm an anglo ontarian who is trying to learn french and learn quebecois culture too. i want to ask this question on like 90% of the memes i see on here haha.
"look at what happened to the little guy next door!"
what high school did you go to there?
what's the strangest thing you've seen walking down the street in shawi?
me too, but i have become a stéphanois.
from what time?
i bought half grams of m39 from an obese man on the bs named serge who lived in ville lemoyne and who never wore a sweater when i was in high school. he was the neighbor of the older sister of a friend of mine, died of an overdose of cocaine (which seems intentional) when i was in cegep. it was smatt.
yes, but does madame thibodeau start her matches on bet99.net?
or wérer / wereux / wereuse
nailed it.
not trying to stock some polemic, or anything, but shawinigan *is* urban. i know it's not a metropolitan-level of urbanity, but it's not "less urban", it's just not montreal with "only" 50k pop.
i love this meme, but typical scèneux stuff happens in villages (or less fortunate neighboor of bigger cities, st-henri, verdun in some parts, vanier in québec...). take herouxville, just 10 minutes away from shawinigan. now that is less urban, and i wouldn't be surprised that there's this kind of *bigoudi neighborhood watch*.
lapper
don't be shy to ask, we love explaining this kind of stuff :)
i'm quebecois and that's the first i've heard of it and a quick google search didn't bring me anything.
you're asking the right kind of question.
though many have disagreed with me on this, there are two strong elements of québec on display in this meme. first: some classic european culture. the nosy, judgmental (and idle) neighbour who lives vicariously is a well-known figure from centuries of small town life in many european cultures, even after decades of urbanization. (i saw this for myself in a few mediterranean countries.) second: some casual adaptation to north america. notice that mme. thibodeau here isn't trying to appear innocent, or more respectable than you, as they might've in europe (she certainly isn't better dressed than you!); she's just spending time on her balcony... passively accusing you.
even if your french is beginner-level, listen to it whenever you can. you will find that french, even québec french, has a more classic feel to it than, say, ontario english (never mind the prairie or small town bc varieties!). take this meme as an example. you will hear the word _scandaleux_ being used in french more often than **scandalous** in english - which has a faintly ridiculous sound nowadays, right?
with this kind of lady, you wouldn't have to ask twice about the meaning of a phrase like "elle parle dans mon dos"...
like 3 days ago a dude shot an arrow at people on a motorcycle and hit the driver in the head.
for me, wéreux, it's rather useless people who come "woir" when it's not the time.
a fire? they are there to "woir", they are useless, they will even get in the way of the fire engine which honks to tamp them.
an accident on the highway? they slow down to 50 km / h, not to go too fast, just to "see" what is happening, even if it creates a traffic jam on 3 km.
the scenic artist does this from home. the wéreux moves, he leaves his appropriate place to be in an inappropriate path, just to "woir" and to satisfy his useless curiosity.
thank you for reading my thesis on the subject.
scenic
i come from shawi pi c is not as bad as you think. but it's still a lost hole
lmao you are right about verdun. it is an art to stage from your balcony
yeah my only knowledge of shawinigan is jean chrétien's classic shawinigan handshake
wrong, the rear passenger. and the "dude" was not found so his could be a dude too
man, gotta say, i learned a lot more about this subrebbit than 2 years of french lessons, in quebec! why do schools never teach words and culture specifically for quebecers? this is gold!
yes it was indeed the first word proposed, thank you
yeah, but no more lost hole than, as i said, many other neighborhoods in large urban centers ...
and avoid the most scenic too! i had developed alternative paths during the good weather to return home in time, just to avoid the worst 🤷‍♂️
shawinigan is a weird city, it can be awesome for some reason and at the same time the worst city in québec. between the 60s and the 00s a lot of jobs have been lost and the factories were shut down.
shawinigan was shining in all of québec especially in the 40s and 50s, but it came to an end and some quarters are basically old and kinda dirty, old people always talk how shawinigan was great and will never forget about it, so it's a nostalgic city. some people went insane about it and there's a psychiatric hospital so it doesn't make it better.
we don't care, it's useless technicalities
because it is not the french of the elite. the one whose rules you need to know the majority of before being proficient in any area. if you do not succeed, you are condemned to do a dep or aec.
yes more. the st. marc area was in the top 5 of the highest crime rates in canada for quite a while over a couple of years.
so it's the detroit of québec?
til right there.
but for foreigners who come to quebec the most important thing is to be able to communicate with quebecers. most of the people in the francization courses are at the lowest level and do not consider doing a university degree, a dep or aec.
are you talking about the two bikers who were shot by a crossbow? the neighborhood is still problematic
kind of, but it's a lot better than detroit
yeah got an arrow on his motorcycle helmet
at least there's the st-marc déli
this cheese doesn't make * squick squick *, it does * shlâck shlâck *
we found chef groleau saputro
this granny is so meta it gives me a headache.
you don't even need to put vinegar in the pout on top of that
pole poo quality
it made me say "* nooooo" * out loud to myself in my office.
aged to perfection in the sun
ok so i'm going to tell you something worse i don't know if the said ex in question i'm going to talk about in the story will read my comment here, but he dared to send me the granny on messenger earlier to taunt me, the gallows game rascal.
so when i was in college, i worked with my ex in the student café, which is closed on weekends. we had a fridge full of bags of milk. however, one friday evening, the fridge farted, so all the bags of milk curdled over the weekend.
when we arrived on monday and saw that, we warned the janitors so that they would come and get and throw the bags, but they didn't want to put them in the trash, they told us we had to empty into the sink.
i'm talking about twenty bags of good or bad milk.
my ex and i decided to split up the work half and half. and bin crime, while i was doing my other half, he came home, said: "eurk it's like cream cheese". and then it made him so nauseated that i emptied the 20 bags all by myself! it was full of "splout splout" and even today, sometimes when i eat cheese in poop, because of his comment, i have reminiscences of that moment and it spoils my pleasure not just a little.
in fact, that's why we're no longer together after 10 years haha (i'm kidding)
that's right, curd cheese is best at room temperature anyway.
lack more than to put it on a tank plate and the loop is closed.
i have a little vomit in my mouth, thank you.
we will chew for a long time
🤦‍♂️
source: [
quepasbon
i admit it's difficult for me to understand
i found my boy's milk green in the other basement, i should have made him a poutine with the contents ....
cheese curds, in formation
shlack shlack cheese, a cheese that tastes like tabarna * c * k
ouarke
but what a terrible day to have eyes
as long as he doesn't shlick shlick ...
but which grandmother are you talking about?
that's why i love this sub, we reuse the same meme in new contexts each time, really refreshing
do you put vinegar in your pout? interesting...
i am okay. it is also a compliment here.
good day cake!
i'm the ex in question. ama
is it a dog from the janitors hahaha you should have put a bag per trash all around the university!
i thought to put this on my cat, put my cat on my tank plate and photograph my tank in front of the château frontenac.
same taste!
thank you, i forgot to self-reference ...
it's based on another pole i made earlier.
my youngest pours himself large glasses of milk and never finishes it ...
i share your pain.
no, i'm sure the cheese on my bat tastes bin better than that xd
ouarke 3 team arena
not personally, but i've seen people do it before. on fries it is good in tk.
kevin brunure does it but he's an eccentric.
i tested this once because i saw others do it .. including several aunts and uncles .. but ouache.
i do not understand the attraction. it just ruined the dish and never could.
all my greetings for your beautiful publicacation.
ah well gadon! i hadn't realized.
how do you sleep at night knowing you're a bastard?
this guy memes
we must follow :), thank you
wait how you know.
ouarke champions
i do it in a poutine, it's fucking good.
thanks!
i take a large glass of hot milk.
yes-nnie
it feels like on twitter
manufacturing defect, we send it back to the manufacturer.
we ship the english to the english.
based
quality cacapoteau
[removed]
lmaooo
canada is no more b)
i can understand his xdxd
my first granny winnie upvoted since ... always?
hat.
[removed]
im tryna learn french but can only read a bit and 
can barely roll my r so im gonna join this sub for practice
[removed]
[deleted]
that independence poll yesterday got you spooked, eh?
in this case, you would also eliminate quebec ...
best pun of my day.
[as soon as said] (
she's from facebook i think
they gave us a country with a monarchy.
otherwise we can keep them with us and use them to play tic tac toe
tokébekicitte, we say "based"
have fun fighting the usa for it lol.
quebec bashers are bad at geopolitics
0.0   **i n n a c c e p t a b l e** /s
we don't ride our r.
i'm sure daddy putin would love that. or maybe biden would.
> i hope you realize that the people who say "cancel canada"
i hope you realize that in quebec there is a constant desire to cancel canada.
dude. separtist or not, that ouinie is fucking funny.
so insecure you felt the need to comment ?
what did the poll say?
nope
i would play the easy cacanada joke, but since they also stole that name from us, i will abstain.
we call it the tic tac toe now
[removed]
insecure about what?
it was a québec independence poll. it was also much closer than i expected from this sub like almost 1500 votes and less than 20 difference close.
but yet ... quebec is part of canada ...? i don't understand downvotes
ban for you 2!
probably, but that doesn't mean it'd be a sitting duck otherwise.
you tell me....you seem to take québec's independence to heart
a reddit poll? doesn’t surprise me after the federal government fucked our country so bad i would want to split too
could i please get a link for the poll… if it is a reddit poll…
comon big, you know exactly what you did and why some people downvote you, not be innocent.
[removed]
[removed]
i support the concept of sovereignty-association for québec and any other province that wants greater autonomy from the federal government.
i mean that i'm surprised there were so many votes against separation on r/quebec.
yeah but it's a troll's fun 😂
>will assert their own independence
nice crystal ball you have there, quick, tell me my own future!
ah, the roof pierced. gorgeous!
edit: thanks for the “awards”. i wish you all good karma and a trip to the real persian rock or a trip to the stadium!
i knew that some tourists left their rubbish on the beaches in gaspé but at this point it blows my mind!
ah yes, the leaning tower of hochelaga-maisonneuve.
gasp(ill) is?
it's in the right direction at least
this is sherbrooke!
j'ai ri
peninsula or a penis-ule?
zoom-in!
i calculate around 130 degrees.
our regions are beautiful
and behind it is the ile de la madeleine, right?
i'm not sure i understand the joke. why is it so funny to put a photo of the stadium and say it's gaspé?
it's wide angle in ta!
i laughed at it dirty this one. should take a series of photos of gaspe.
like the magnificent gaspe dam:
they build quickly say so!
the rock is beautiful seen from here
it's really beautiful wasted ... x_x
what is gaspé?
gaspé - hochlague, same fight. a poor city which attracts tourists for its big patent all holes.
*gaspé* it's so beautiful!
its in montreal but nice photo
ok, this one is good!
coming to me with my bent rock ... so let it be.
g (r) as (seed) p (ay) é.
no it's the building in ottawa
penis alone
this is the tip that my 4th year teacher gave us to remember that the gaspé is a peninsula.
penis-u-le
gas-penile penis
enhance!
it reminded me of this anecdote: my sister-in-law once thought she saw la ronde when in the car on the pierre laporte bridge.
yes a 5h boat ride to get there 😂
paul bougon who shows french tourists around old quebec and niagara falls.
surely relates to the post of percé rock a few days ago.
it's clear that it has a [meme potential.] (
depend on when you go, it pierces at the average 20 years
ga (rgantuesque) s (tu) p (idit) é
ah yes, definitely ay
on screen
my great grandmother said when i was young:
"i don't know if it was in montreal or quebec, but i know it was in the states"
exactly.
not too much i hope. otherwise we will still have to pay it with our taxes another 30 years
link?
brands
aah, the classic tva. a passerby is asked if he is afraid to "insert the topic of the day here". i hope they've also been to see what people are saying on twitter and facebook to bring it back to us on tv. the real news!
he also said he was vaccinated. a real one ...
a distant cousin of that old classic, certainly.
pure quebec boomer 100% from here.
an iconic boomer
i am english speaking and understood 0% of what he said
haha wife bad
two benanes
we also remember him: [ danemark(
one of the best moments of 2021 so far.
fam i saw it live and immediately wondered how i could find the clip to publish it here ☠️
r/arethestraightsok
his wife has to wear her mask, that's why!
u / savevideo
great journalism!
a boomer in its natural state
-what are you afraid of?
"me? afraid of everything. the chicken is undercooked, salmonellosis ..."
-you disappoint me, i didn't believe you were also * chicken *.
(parodies on earth are on youtube)
what do you mean you are not afraid, you should be afraid, everyone is afraid, if you are not afraid you are not normal, by repeating that the world must be afraid, now they are all afraid. are you not listening to us? is that why you're not afraid? we tell you that you should be afraid, you should trust us.
y wants to die
the cream of quebec.
fuck education i guess
r/arethestraightsok
r/arethestraightsok
[deleted]
there is a habit of ridiculing this kind of behavior here, and i don't understand it.
the guy, makes his decisions and will assume the consequences. it's his osti of problem if yen die, how does that concern you?
typical boomer monuncle. the chin mask and the mysogine pockets jokes.
dude the other day on their news show, they had a mundane audio clip to play. instead of simply showing the audio text on the screen, we can see their 'reporter' on the cell phone in close-up with a very, very concerned air, pretending to receive the call. o less do not take the world for vat cellars! y give us that, 100% true, nothing less.
we laugh but it's so commonplace, it's easy to forget that we are downright being told what to think and that the sample presented is fuckall representative.
the modern classic example on blogs / news sites: "(tv series or movie) did something and the internet is outraged"
and the article is 3 paragraphs which says that this or that scene of the show caused controversy and that * the whole internet * is in fury. the proof? here are 3 different tweets from nobodies with 100 followers. and there follows 2 weeks of repost, mainly by a counter-movement of people who complain that the world is made soft worse that * cancel culture * must stop.
it's really popular to shit on the far left wokes / feminists. they will show you 3 tweets from an extremist feminist nobody who thinks that like all men are rapists or a screeching silliness of the same, and then the title of the article and the content of the article will pretend that it is are like all the feminists of quebec who think that like "rapist by default? here are the new feminist demands". and then the comments on fb will say "well another drift from the left" when the reality is that 99% of the left do not agree with this pitcher and that it does not deserve a news article.
tva nouvelles, from the big tv!
i knew an old military man with a bunch of 20 year old guys who fought in korea, the guy says i never peeuur da rieeen, except my wife.
"i fell into a beer"
\ - yes, at least 30 years ago. like obelix in the potion.
hey c'est vardun!
i had never seen that one before. it's perfect 👌
report ?
tva news: are you afraid sir?
the old man: afraid of what?
tva news: gym?
the old man: much more afraid of my wife than that
tva nouvelles : sir, are you afraid ?
the old man: afraid of what?
vat news: gyms?
le vieux : way more afraid of my wife than this.
came here to say this. and i speak french everyday at work.. with pur laine construction workers
you have to train you ear to hear it.
watch more québécois french shows. anything with marc labrèche is funny as hell. i also recommend série noire on netflix. tlmep is also good. le bougons. fuck  i could go on 😆😆
"aren't you afraid?"
"afraid of who? i'm more afraid of my wife than that."
p e a k  c o m e d y
never caught covid, except once at the cottage
the "just once at the chalet" of 2021
### [view link] (
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
"i'm more afraid of my wife than of you"
again for those at the bottom:
when you don't follow the instructions, it's not just you that you're exposing yourself to, it's everybody with whom you come in contact.
yes, he makes his decisions. but his irresponsible decisions could have consequences that he cannot take on alone. because if it infects other people, it loads the emergency rooms and hospitals, it makes even more overtime to the health workers who are already at their end. not to mention that it hurts a whole lot of other worlds from covid. but also, it hurts a lot of other worlds who are waiting for the health care they need, and who cannot currently receive it because this care is no longer accessible because of covid.
so no, he cannot assume the consequences of his actions alone. and yes, that concerns us all. i can't believe that after a year we still have to explain this.
well we just found someone who is part of the problem
> there is a habit of ridiculing this kind of behavior here, and i don't understand it.
> 
> 
> 
> the guy, makes his decisions and will assume the consequences. it's his osti of problem if yen die, how does that concern you?
> if he wants to drive at 200 on the highway, that's none of your business, it's just him!
> if he wants to take his gun and go hunting in a park in downtown montreal, that's just him! no consequence for anyone else
> lubarteééééé gang of sheep!
here i have completed the missing part of your comment.
the guy laughs at his joke, the madame de tva laughs at her joke, his wife laughs at her joke, everyone laughs except you.
you have to laugh in life, it's good for hormones.
go cry worse
[removed]
it's junk tv to generate advertising revenue. the fox news from qc.
yep, that's scary! the media distort reality by putting a magnifying glass over all the idiots and idiots, who represent only a tiny percentage of the population ... and that gives them a real platform, therefore real power.
the following day ? nah man, clearly who was still in xd drink
if i sewed such beautiful outfits for my children, i would take every opportunity to take pictures of them.
when you inject yourself with a bad batch of quick into your veins
you have parents with a good sense of humor and the photo developed sure they had a good laugh over a boozy supper with friends while you were in bed.
that's nightmare fuel😂
in my opinion, it was not the day after the brush, quite the contrary ... it was well known at the time that there was a rivalry between the mascot community and the cabaret comedian claude crest and that they didn't hesitate to hit each other in the face when the going got tough.
clearly the day after a battle won by mr crest, as usual.
nesquick - heineken. no time to fool around!
well, i just did my abs for the day, thank you for sharing!
next day brush? fuck that! for me there is hotboxing bonsaion in his big plush head
* when you could be nesquik and you are more like nesslow *
looks like the nesquik bunny got into the coco puffs
mr. nesquik should have snorted a little quik line to get back on the peak a bit.
the best condition for a good * milk chocolate *!
this is what happens when you drink too much chocolate milk kids
🥴
hahahahah i love it!
calf, what had he put in his quick ™ that morning?
when you bought a 36 poses but finally a 24 would have done the trick, you take less interesting photos so that you can go and wear your film right away.
they knew what they were doing
hahaha tabouère! at least you didn't throw up his quick on it.
haha bin yes, finished rabbit.
nesquick, the devil's diarrhea!
he is in depression after killing groquik.
j'adore hahaha good job op
hahaha anything!
💯
this photo just amplified my fear of mascots
i discovered the expression 'next day brush', very nice, with this fabulous photo it's a treat, thank you to you distant cousin!
post worthy of / r / wtf
i always preferred groquick anyway ...
when remorse for your groquick murder has kept you from sleeping for 10 days.
when i went to raves in the 90s, there were a lot of people with that face lol
lol when i was a kid it was not the rabbit there mascot of nesquick. it came that later
[deleted]
this face when you think speed is a synonym for quick
that's what happens when you have kids.
he had surely tried to pull the pipe a little too much
and obviously, pierre harrisson escaped with the cash. as usual. cursed crosseur.
😂😂😂
do not make fun of mad max and his party too much. they've had significant gains - and just that, as an accelerator and with political instability and fragility, they're going to come back and probably run on it again. always take the opponent seriously, however marginal he may be.
don't forget about it.
edit: he will be at the next leaders' debate since he has at least 3% of the votes. watch out.
his speech was so uncomfortable. i don't know why they broadcast this.
this is the first time that i see on this meme that the guy is taking it easy with the lady's pussies.
it reminds me of singh two years ago dancing when he had just lost 20 seats.
max bernier closed the debate on proportional representation
you were ready to post pretty quickly!
i love!!!
for those who don't understand: the ppc did not win any seats, but they did have a large enough proportion of the popular vote to receive federal funding and to appear in the debates in the next election.
he tripled his votes and above all he fucked up the conservative party properly, i think that's just what wanted.
he did less well than the polls suggested, but he finished 2nd and projections suggested it was more than very likely that he would lose. the majority of party supporters knew full well that they would not win any seats seeing all the projections in all the polls. i know that there are those who prefer to imagine that it is trump-lite, that reassures them it seems, but no, bernier will not dispute the result of the elections and did not say that all the polls were false etc.
more than one in twenty canadians voted for his party after the media smeared it and had no real coverage. his party received three times the vote in 2019. it is the 3rd anniversary of the party. so that's why he celebrates.
also, the ppc is far from rallying only former cpc voters. it may have cost them a few seats, but the ccp's problems remain the same and they are not able to have a charismatic leader.
by 3rd position you mean din's'strade.
he is the big winner of the 2021 elections.
\ - goes from 1.5% to 5% at the level of the vote. better funding from election canada.
\ - with 5% of the voting intentions, he has the right to participate in the televisual debate at the next election.
all the other parties almost stalled in their elections except the ppc. you don't need to be just elected to win an election.
and so sweet in an interview on radio canada after being a shower online.
thank you
a beautiful taouin
incorrect grandma, he's second.
he shouldn't even be on the podium for the meme
except that he did not arrive 3rd but 6th ... out of 6 ...
you have to be quite a loser when you're the leader of your party and you only get 19% of the vote in your own count.
the elections were worth it just to hear his enlightened speech. he seriously compared canada to the chinese regime? he is completely off the track and downright dangerous in his words. looks like trump 2.0
and to think that 5% of the population voted for him. it scares me.
a good cellar that deserves its defeat, but it will make the debates a lot more entertaining in 18 months by saying bullshit non-stop for 2 hours
it's the end that scares me.
without a pandemic, what fears will bernier play on? i believe that the current context artificially inflates support for the ppc.
> he will be at the next leaders' debate since he has at least 3% of the votes. watch out.
it takes an average of 5% of the voting intentions according to the polls one week before the election call. without covid, it is not certain that he will be able to maintain his base which is made up mainly of people angry at the health measures.
the pro-ppc are not just people against a vaccination passport. it would be stupid to assume that their values are limited to that. it is mostly people who want policies similar to those of the united states. less gun control, less taxes, less compulsory insurance. libertarians what.
i think bernier was right yesterday to say that he was writing a page of history. this is the birth of right-wing us-style politics in canada.
one thing that can help him and his party immensely would be for his fans to become politically active and plant a conservative / libertarian culture in canada. this is how there will be a generation of young people who want a canada like the united states.
he's going to be able to look like a fool on national tv. great.
and there would be seats if the electoral reform had taken place (unless the reform was done perfectly, but yes, it is a reform of the government ....)
does hearing it in the debate risk promoting gains? it was rather backfirer for the greens.
and it's going to take on another polarizing topic in 2-4 years. the vaccine will no longer be the spearhead of conspis.
he is not eligible for the leaders' debate because to be in the debate, his party must have at least 1 seat + 4% of the vote.
at the same time it was the previous one and there will be less anti vax in a year and a half.
michael fortier didn't find it funny: d
you have the answer in your first part.
details? it doesn't tempt me to go and watch it, it smells like cringe here
i had never noticed haha
ciboere almost a goatsee
it's a bit about for the ppc ...
just my impression ...
gotta stay positive
yeah, but it was racist sieges in quebec / s
yup, all of a sudden i'm against the reform of the ballot! (not really)
for me yes anyway. people fall for the idea because they only hang out with people on the left, but it is the far right that would come out on top.
tripled his votes okay that's for sure, but the conservatives won 3 seats ... i don't think they fucked them up lol
he buggered the conservatives? dude, even in his own county, the tories got more than double the votes hahaha.
i believe more than one in 20 is a conspiratorial crackpot in canada so i consider it a victory. one of my former employees who votes for the ccp spends his time writing that space does not exist.
since branson and bezos made their flight he has linked more and more things to that. i can't even imagine how he sees life if he thinks space doesn't exist. like the earth is flat and space is a background !? in any case, he is the target audience for maxime bernier.
what is financing? $ 2 / vote?
would that make him in the 1.5 million range?
i just saw your other comment after making the granny. we thought exactly the same when listening to this lol
yéééééééééé je suis 6e woooooo !!!!!! fucking eh !!!!!!! yesssssss! grand champioooooooooon!
wooooo! full of tanks and pickups !!
> future 2026 alliance between trump's patriot's party and ppc quebec
at the same time, this election has riled up all the conspis and hash.
the movement my dying puts that there will be more crisis. and guess what, well that in 4 years i still have one.
why ?
you shouldn't be afraid, he's just going to have a traditional platform to express his ideologies. after that, it's up to the people to vote. do you really believe that the ppc is going to be a party that aspires to something other than marginality because of a simple debate of the leaders?
the other dude (i forget his name) mentioned that more socially right-wing conservatives have a good chance of changing tack if they find o'toole too "moderate".
the problem of the conservative party in my opinion, what hurts them the most, is that the leader must always be ambiguous on several social issues, which does not please the general population. the chief does not have much choice to be able to be elected internally.
if the party would run on an economic right only and clear social positions, i believe they would have a much better chance of being elected nationwide.
private message received following my comments in this post.
> i'll tell you what is filthy dishonesty
> your osti from the land of canada is a filthy dishonesty, and soon the masquerade will end, because an iq gap of at least 50, like we have between us, it ends up appearing one day, and in fact, your osti de pays de marde was founded by the clique of filthy nazis (for real this time) of the orange loyalist order to wipe my people off the map.
attention friends, / u / alex_mathieu has a big iq !!!
i read some time ago a book entitled "identity melancholies - a year to read mathieu bock-coté"
we thank the author for his great sacrifice.
strong educational. that explains very well the victimite-acute of the conservative right.
people who think you have to be right to be against wokes. i invite you to visit r / stupidpol, very interesting.
ootl, what's going on?
you are brave to post this here ... posts on mbc always rekindle passions haha
i live at the head of mbc :)
all i see is a good granny. whether you are left or right
[meanwhile, in the federal government ...] (
whether we are for or against mathieu bock-côté, we must recognize that the debate is important for moving society forward and we are lucky to have an intellectual of this level among us. he has to go to france for the launch of his new book and i find it remarkable to illustrate our nation abroad.
ah well screeches i never thought that a meme i conceptualized would pick up so much attention one day on reddit xd (i pitched the idea on facebook inspired by the meme on antifa and someone else's created as such).
hahaha!
i like mbc, but i like this granny more
the idea of woke wasn't that bad in theory, at least when i first knew what it was like in the beginning. in practice, it seems that it has become a 'witch hunting' / cyberbullying campaign that is wreaking havoc in our society.
the legal concept of 'innocent until proven guilty' is taking the edge off with these people. but 'woke' people are the first to want this concept to apply to them. just a bunch of hypocrites.
me over here in bc like "?" why the hell is quebec reddit suggested to me? lol
hot take if mbc was not sovereignist / nationalist there would not be many people who would give him importance. the only reason that these narrative pognes so much is that the "woke" face the nationalist in all his analogies. replace the words sovereignists / nationalists by conservatives and you get the same repetitive analyzes given by all conservative analysts.
beautiful social debate, typical of the left which ridicules those who do not say / think like him. there's good in everything, but it's not because you believe in individual freedom that you are a genius, a covidot or a boomer.
what wokes and leftists do in general (shutdown debates) does nothing to advance our society.
the problem today is that these “wokes” are loud so the laws are often voted to the detriment of people who are not interested in the claims. it gives cardboard straws, no grocery bag, meat without meat, etc. not that these things are bad things but clearly these things have been imposed.
a meme like that, the only thing it does is polarize. i see nothing constructive
oh mash, my faith the very sub scene is very, very \ * on fire \ *
u / shabadabadabada it's funny because the comments prove the meme
i love him mbc.
isn't there someone who would like to tag the mod who wanted to put a rule prohibiting images?
lol - this morning -  - et martineau -  2021/04/14 / abolish-the-police-last-fad-of-the-wokes
yet he is right, this radical tendency of the left is gaining the upper hand and dominating a lot of elite discourse, whether media or political.
i didn't like it before we talked about wokes. but i don't like wokes either
lolll is silly
not in the room, of course. that in universities, boards of directors, mass media, and government agencies.
come back bock-côté, you're slipping!
i hate mbc and the identity movement in general. however, the "wokes" are really a plague in the usa in some institutions. we have to be careful not to let american politics spoil our society. we don't have to follow american ideas, any more than americans have to follow our ideas.
for me, * wokes * is mostly an ideology which is .... how to put it to be polite ... nameless bullshit and yes, that can be dangerous. there is not a cat that will make me bow, for example, to the use of the whole list of first names for trans or other forms of ideological control. i'm a star wars fan and i like * wookies * better.
i would like to see anyone here face to face with mbc live at the tivi.
no, they are at montreal city hall (let's disarm the police) and the government of canada.
he was banned from / r / quebec so he attacks people by private message. i've had to deal with this con in the past too.
cibole isn't even funny for real, this dude looks like he has some pretty serious mental health issues.
with the way he writes, he is either 14 years old or has an intellectual disability. either way, it's not a threat, you can let it bitch!
i'm the only one who doesn't understand a word of what he's saying ...
canada has many flaws but was not founded by nazis at all what is this claim
there isn't a smart person who believes in iq
seems to me that i have already sent dms this guy too, i receive a couple so happy
beau username
it's a bit of an initiation ritual to receive a pm from him.
this is classic alex mathieu
thanks to his big iq, he misread your nickname and he really took you for the real mbc? although that does not justify such a boondoggle either ...
> identity melancholies
this is pretty much the best short summary we can give of mbc.
he could deal with the deforestation of the amazon or the conflict on the border between russia and ukraine and still find a way to tell us what these situations tell us about quebec identity.
is he a conservative for real, or is he just addicted to nostalgia?
i had personally categorized it as "progressive who thinks that the sixties were the golden age of quebec".
wouldn't it have been better if you read an mbc book instead? and make up your own mind. i don't know, but it seems to me that it sounds less wrong like that.
i didn't really like his latest book, but no one needed to tell me.
i know we don't have to read everything either, but hey.
acute victimhood is the prerogative of any radical thought or movement, whether on the right or on the left.
i tried to read his last book and it was super painful, i read 20% of it skipping a lot of pages.
i don't really understand the point of summarizing his books, it's not worth reading.
what one thinks is that to fixate on "wokes", regardless of political alignment, is deeply ridiculous.
it is not the fact of being against the "wokes" the problem, it is to see them everywhere and to think that it is a kind of sect which controls all the aspects of the company as martineau and mbc think it.
the wokes are made a scarecrow of the right. all the evils of the earth are caused by wokes according to them. they and the famous antifas ...
as far as i know, to this day there has never been any wokes having caused a killing unlike individuals on the extreme right ...
the meme doesn't say that. nobody thinks that. at worst it is a minority.
the point of the meme (i think) is that some people use the term "woke" all over the place. in one of my gynecology lessons (studying medicine), the teacher mentioned victims of sexual assault in the list of risk factors for stbbis.
a dude in my class sent a selfie on snapchat to say "the wokes worse the metoo and the blm, we know that that's why the teacher plugs sexual assault !!" "
you talk at all about a social problem, and they accuse you of being a damn woke communissse
"against the wokes" as if the wokes were a clearly defined mass, a group with a clear membership ... ok buddy.
if you're not woke, you're "far right" automatically.
ps: do you remain on the non-extreme right in 2021 according to the left?
mathieu bock côté sees "wokes" everywhere in society.
am not here for the upvotes! i understand that it revives a certain debate but is not that the goal of social networks and especially reddit which shares most of the ideas in text?
the hair adds a certain touch of authenticity.
[do you want a relic?] (
to drink the coffee you bought from steinberg.
me it is a new mcdonalds ashtray that i would like to find.
all that's missing is the famous catalog! bonus if it's the christmas edition hahaha
i miss sears but even more zeller :(
they missed the digital boat so much, sears! they had everything to succeed in online sales, and the diversity of products to match amazon !!!
i worked for them for 5 years.
the reflection of a sears mug is like the pinnacle of r / vaporwave and r / liminalspace
monthly on the answering machine: “hello, it's colette at the sears counter. this is to say that your package has arrived ”
i have seen old sears bills to my great grandmother which were completely full but the total was something like $ 5-10. the invoices at that time were kind of cardboard and it was about 10cm by 15cm.
my family mainly went shopping there when i was little. i feel a little nostalgic when i see this.
i worked at the warehouse in ville st laurent, it was a huge building. i don't remember the number of garage doors but it was over 100.
are there pictures of women in lingerie inside?
does anyone have a steinberg mug?
for me, it is distribution to consumers that rocked my childhood!
[
holy grail!
there are no more sears in quebec today?
the lingerie section has been used a lot by us xd
gold
su bought me a simpson-sears \ * chesterfield!
\ * pronounced "wax"
i want her so much !!
there is a piece of i kept my niece, and i would have given everything so that we had sears catalogs to cut people, furniture, lawnmowers and carpets to stick them on cardboard and make a story! \* cry \*
penthouse slogan in the 80's?
the sheep knot on the tv.
disappointed. i was waiting for a photo of la poune.
my grandmother still has one at home
mine is softer
holy shit, i had a vision of mongrain and his stache for a while
i have the same in white!
oh criss. that would be sick
[j’ai seulement cette photo à t’offrir](
i thought the same thing! i spent so many hours flipping through the sears christmas catalog as a kid. what beautiful memories of the pre-internet era!
zellers was perfectly frozen in time. i'm not going to walmarttte, so going to zelleurs, it was perfect: not a cat in the rows, big peace.
and woolco!
i miss the zellers restaurant
me 2 at sears laval in painting
how was there?
i don't know liminalspace, it's nice
i feel! zealots and sears give me a kind of nostalgia
i feel like sears shut down like two years. time is passing. strange that it is a memory of childhood for some.
>on october 10, 2017, sears canada announced that it would seek court approval to shut down all of its remaining stores in canada and lay off 11,240 remaining staff
>liquidation sales began on october 19, 2017. the remaining sears stores closed on january 14, 2018.
criss that it would not pass in 2021, we would have the association for the defense of the rights of black animals which would qualify this as a major crime against blacks. bin yes, the sheep is black, it's simple, isn't it?
lol [she] ( looked like a relic even in the 60s!
wow the redesigned version!
put some! spend 3 hours circling all the gifts you want for christmas so that finally your parents are completely satisfied and never consult the annotated catalog! lol
wait ... [and this?] (
the big peace. especially when you were looking for something and wanted to ask an employee. there you had it particularly, the big peace
correct at the time they paid the best in supermarkets. funny painting too, but in st-laurent.
but he knows you.
i had a mini heart attack while reading the headline.
fake news. they started using macs and apple. that's why.
seeing it again just warms up other people's jokes. they are on the verge of putting a picture of legault cranky.
are you looking for good deals? check out our christmas offers on the official microsoft store and save on our laptops, tablets and consoles as well as many accessories. whether you need a pc for your workspace, your business; whether you want to have fun and play your favorite games; or whether you just want to find the best christmas gifts for your loved ones, take advantage of the microsoft store end of year promo.
the world is already quite mixed up as well, unfortunately this is the kind of post that some gullible people will believe. sorry but there are enough people who doubt that it is a good idea to get vaccinated that we risk adding more.
to see him again is a national treasure
as long as it's not apple ...
if my conspiratorial friend sees it, it will believe it 100%
make your research
update: 
[
it's rare that i find revoir jokes good, but this one made me smile.
quebec's iq average just dropped suddenly
hahahaha too good ginette but did you know that it is a minimum of 5 years to produce a safe vaccine?
[removed]
it's to avoid that that i put "le revoir" at the end ...
maybe i should have put it at the beginning?
like real sheep ....
haven't they already done it?
lucky! you have been vaccinated!
need a pc? take your ecp!
i don't think we can reason with them anyway. we will not help having fun between us in the meantime ... the kind of person who will really believe something like this post already has his idea made and is lost.
we would be embarrassed to laugh at the conspirators ...
so stop pretending that "other people" are amazing fools just to make yourself feel like you are better than them.
nah, that would be more of a sign that they are infected. after all, "loss of taste" is on the list of symptoms, right? : p
^ (/ s just in case ...)
what changes, gates is also the biggest shareholder of apple
*actually* c'est gnu/covid
when funds and resources are limited. this was not the case in the last year ...
yeah, instead of getting you injected with a 5g chip, we have a promotion where we can inject you with a 5g tower instead if you live high up in an urban area. it's a better deal, we give you discounts on selected products as a bonus! : p
don't worry, you're not worth the cost of a 5g microchip. either way, your operating system is outdated.
r/covidiot
why?
you'll have to elaborate a little more if you don't want to look like the craziest of the place.
"whoever says it is he who is!" ...
we're big enough to do the rest of the way
baaaah
i prefer to be a sheep than a rat ...
i understand where you're coming from with that angle, but i think you always have to keep a place to talk with people from a diametrically opposed point of view, no matter how deeply they have their own foot in their mouths. own ass no matter how stupid they are. people can make amends. it may be more and more rare, but it happens and the discussion is the instrument;)
yes, if there weren't that many
if there wasn't a fuck load of cellars that believe more in leprechauns than in science, there would not yet be more than 2,000 cases per day even after more than 7,000 deaths in quebec.
if there weren't a great collection of ignorant tapons, we wouldn't need to try to convince 30% of the population to get vaccinated to stop the pandemic screeching.
the world is not all cave, but there is enough of it to confuse us every day. it's nothing new but the pandemic just amplified the overall impact of their stupidity, worse despite the body count do you know what? most of these wineries still haven't got it.
_edit / ps: and yes, i'm better than them, and probably you too because these cellars are a minority, but it's a minority that makes the rest of the world pay ._
nice one
i am not an anti-vaccine, but from what i know and what i read, this vaccine is suspicious, with good reason. it's okay to laugh at people who talk about 5g and other crazy theories, but don't fall into the trap and laugh at anyone who is suspicious or worried about the vaccine.
"respecting a ten-year deadline to produce a vaccine is to ensure that the latter is safe. researchers ensure its effects over time, test and control each of the four major stages of development."
[removed]
do we say "rekt" or is there a term in french for that?
because bill soros the illuminati gates.
as if that should stop us!
could you please reconsider your ps ?! after analysis, we realize that your assumption has turned out to be false.
you are literally spreading the false belief that the virus is the fault of those who criticize the government. aka you agree with the most extreme of those you think you denounce, those who believe that all this is an invention to control the population.
did you read what i wrote?
> did you know that vaccinated children are less healthy than vaccinated children?
damn, this is deep! #do your research
i like how in most cases the operator seems to get stuck with it like it happens every day.
criss the world that turns left without watching quesser it's summer.
take me off that permit there.
sounds cool as a job. compete in tanks. i apply as soon as the positions are open!
unless the new mayor makes changes in an attempt to appease motorists, this kind of situation should be next to impossible. it was planned that the tram run on the surface on an elevated platform and that the left turn be prohibited on the few intersections where it will be possible to cross the rails of the tram.
this video, however, is another great example of why branded floor paint does not make cycle gutters safe environments for cyclists.
it will be beautiful in quebec, the drivers drive so well!
it has its place in r / idiotsincars 🤣
blind spot tabarnack
hope they pay for the damage to the tram ... trying to destroy public infrastructure to save 5 seconds is pathetic
all the more reason for a tram, it wakes up distracted drivers. hope they ordered some that are h2 resistant.
i assume that's why they want to prevent left turns at a bunch of places the streetcar is going to pass.
i can't wait to see the karens of this world whining at the streetcar that doesn't stop in the same way they whip at cyclists
are they heating their tanks with their eyes closed or what?
i like the air of 'jmen caresses' of the tram drivers :)
the proof is made that the tram quickly eliminates vehicles from traffic! 👊
and it's the tram to defeat him every time.
i hope they will put as good bumpers on the tram as on my old volvo 640, not killable this case there.
considering the average quality of motorists in quebec, it will be beautiful to see.
there aren't enough words to write joy in my heart watching this
in the current version of the quebec city tram, it is a reserved raised lane, which certainly encloses automobile traffic. but you would have to be cave to think that the world of quebec will not just cringe on the tramway path, some bus routes here are blocked by tanks all day long.
toé d'in rue criss!
looks like drivers are used to
why does the tram make no effort to dodge?
/s
all i see is people settling down without checking their blind spot. not the tram's fault.
it's a pro-tramway argument :) yes, yes, if the tramway is to crush the ostis of incompetent people on the road, it's a victory!
people do it with the 18 wheeler truck ... sad. at least with the tram people had just ring the bell .. a mini slap wake up !. with an 18 wheels it's rare you wake up .. pay attention friends
more efficient than a bus! pu chariot in its path
did the streetcar carry "high-vis" wants. was he on his phone? did it capture the driver's attention before committing.
sorry, the kind of shit people ask about people who get hit by a tank ...
if the world can't see a streetcar coming and predict the movements of a rail vehicle ... do you imagine how it drives around pedestrians and cyclists?
entk, it looks really safe
insurance is on the roll 🙄 merchant mayor trio + centraide + ia insurance 🤫
which city is it?
r/idiotsincars
the left turn lanes in parallel with the tram look really bad shit.
i like how the tram conductors shout about it
i dont know if english is allowed, but i find it hilarious that she just keeps vibing after crashing into these people. what moron drives in front of a train
being a driver would be kinda fun…. 
everyday would be a game of “you’re an idiot”, “you’re an idiot” oh and “you too, are an idiot!”
in quebec, accidents will be counted in the tens daily for at least 5 to. 10 years.
a tram is just okay if it has its own way.
still better that ottawa's lrt
where are they planning to do a streetcar?
dithering!
with the labaume version, it would not have been possible due to the large criss of the concrete slab. it would also have been impossible to veer left on a good hundred intersections, almost cutting the city in half but that is another problem that the new mayor does not want to have.
hahaha wish i could do that when iam snowplowing
that last guy was really dedicated to getting across the street man
hello
how hard is it to shoulder check? on to the fucking train track
tram
i got caught once in toronto a few years ago, i was in a chariot behind a streetcar (i'm zero used to streetcars), the streetcar stops in the middle of the street and i go right for the get around
until i screeched the brakes because the passengers were starting to disembark ... i was not fat in my panties
i was really expecting the trams to squeeze to the side to unload the world but after a big minute of thinking my brain said to me "let's see creak the tram is on tracks, if the tracks are in the middle of the street this is where asti thick is going to go "
the sad thing is that the drivers seem used to it lol
i don't know where it is, but with my "youtube skills" i would dare to believe that it is in russia.
i assume that most of the people who turn left and get knocked over have made their blind spot. the problem <eme c'est qu'ils sont habitué de voir une auto et de pensé qu'ils ont l'espace pour s'engagé alors que le tramway n'arrête pas et ne laisse pas passé.
women tram drivers are dangerous this is a government message
the pipes are the arteries.
at the same time, wtf is "pipeline punch"
r/trouduction
the amazon translations are excruciating ... as their research elsewhere.
it'll twist your guts
technically correct.
when you have your stomach ulcer, you can't say we didn't warn you.
well the pipe of my bath is blocked solid. do you think it's strong enough for a job as well?
it tastes like drano.
the killer question: why did you put it feminine?
new euphemism for a laxative?
the amazon site in general is really poorly translated into french. it hurts the eyes. and not just the product names.
you drink this you die.
so i say bravo! hahah
the '' m '' on the can is actually a reproduction of your intestines after consuming the product!
that must be why energy drinks always make me want to shit
i didn't know it was available in quebec .... it's a flavor we have in japan that is the best for me. but when i went to quebec, their pink can was not the same.
i do not know how to puncture a pipe? how does it happen
i'm not even angry ..
i am impressed
r/trouduction
this is what happens when you are given a document to translate without the context.
at least we understand better why this flavor is "currently not available" ...
it is not false !
no lie detected
in a canadian tire i have already hit a pick and bumping hammer in selection and striking hammers
google translate is not your best friend ...
extra flavor of pipeline shale gas
the photos of bad translations, it is really close to the bottom of the barrel question quality of post that ar / quebec.
not false
and the whole digestive tract.
arteries are life.
they are not wrong!
punch for pipes.
it's a flavor created by albertans
if i remember on the side of the can they talk about it and say pipeline is a wave that forms in hawaii from time to time, pi punch is their kind of monster with juice in it. faq being a tropical flavor they call it the punch pipeline
wow thanks for that
i already bought a fryer there without petroleum.
seriously, i just don't understand how the biggest ecommerce site in the world can have such a crappy product listing and search engine.
maybe they're so big they don't care, but it seems to me that for a company that claims to be so "obsessed" with customer satisfaction, that's a little weird.
[deleted]
of course, but it often makes you laugh for a second, you can't be serious all the time, either!
if you don't like it, just don't read them.
there are 82 upvotes, so i would say the people voted yes, they like it. if you can see it, it's because the world finds it not so bad.
is that the word arteries or pipes that you don't understand?
😂 with and
if you don't have any other things, you're really out of luck.
thank you.
with a sweet bitumen taste 🛢
it wastes the federal government's billions for nothing?
ok so electric?
the bad search engine is in my opinion voluntary. make you spend more time on their site and show you other related products.
i see no other explanation.
first mistake, trying to insult an experienced stand up comic.
absolute ratio 😂
"hello, security? i'd like to report a murder."
damn we can hardly get over this!
/r/comedyhomicide
ouch, i hurt for her.
hahahaha
wow, that burn
technically she can buy the ticket, just not go to the show.
asti 😂
sorry i got mega brain damage can someone translate cus i do t remember any french
publishing the opinions of the antivaxx - when all they want is to make their opinions known everywhere - is being "low" now?
not the fault of the vaxxed if the antivaxx do not know how to convey their message intelligibly or how to demonstrate that they at least know what they are talking about or that they know the few basic principles on which their arguments should be based.
hahaha segregation 🤣🤣🤣
second mistake: not getting vaccinated and displaying it (surely) with pride
especially a stand up comic which made its reputation by ridiculing the population.
all the same. it could / r / comedyhitmen too
guy nantel (a stand up comic) made a video (vox pop) asking questions to anti-vaxers, where they basically displayed their lack of knowledge to say the least. the lady in the comment is mad at him for this video, and said she would never purchase a ticket to attend his show. he then responded (assuming she's anti-vax) : "you can't buy a ticket anyway, you're not vaccinated".
people who believe castro was the dictator of the magdalen islands have no clear, grounded message.
no, you're in confinement.
segregation is when you are separated from everyone else over something you cannot control  - like your ethnicity. this is anti vaxxers making their decisions in a public health context with no regard for the health of others and then wanting the right to force those risks onto others.
if you don't want to vaccine that's your decision- i think it's idiotic but it's your right to make your idiotic decisions. however your decisions have consequences for others. it is their right to not want to be anywhere near you.
fuck around and find out?
the people who ridicule themselves and who themselves give their consent to be posted
many thanks
it would be so fun if it were that simple.
it is that simple. the province has re-defined. but we decided to allow the vaccinated to be exempted in order to help traders and industries.
more than half of the planet is vaccinated. it is that simple.
2 bites and it's over my boy!
what the fuck lmao the vaccine is free and full easy online why it's not easy you can explain to me i'm so curious.
crisse make an appointment for my blood tests it's made more complicated that appointment for the vaccine does not piss me off.
wow. touch.
what a great way to explain it!
the virus is royally rooted in political convictions, poetic soaring silliness on freedom and opinions.
he goes through people, and kills them. otherwise, leave them with sequels. if you're lucky, you'll get nothing.
it's like yelling at a train to stop moving or think that by doing it with your fingers, it will slow down.
get vaccinated.
silly things, it's like in florida and the other american states.
i agree with you that politicizing a virus and taking a stand on measures by political stripe is really not a good idea.
i don't comment much on covid threads because it pisses me off to read narcissists pouring out their voices. their bloody gym, their hyper-powerful immune system, their silly interpretations of scientific consensus, their absolute right to infect other members of society. i see a great lack of education, solidarity and civic sense among the unvaccinated. it's appalling to read some of the comments. i will never see my fellow citizens the same way again, i will always have a doubt - did such and such get involved in the conspicuous nonsense at the time of the covid? and it's not just on reddit, there are antivax in my in-laws and in my office too. i despise them deeply and lastingly.
running a red light to piss off government and society is a bad idea.
we have the same problem in france. all this is too politicized, and we are so used to the government imposing things that go against the will of the people (and then it must also be said that the french government has been doing anything since the beginning of the pandemic, it seems that they are improvising at the last moment without knowing where they are going), that inevitably, when they ask us to be vaccinated, people refuse and protest on principle, by rejecting the policy and without considering the health interest, or they are done because they have no choice, because without that they cannot go to restaurants and bars to stuff themselves and booze like holes (our national sport), and that pisses them off. in my opinion, if no politician had been involved, if the vaccine had been suggested to us by our attending physicians, for example, or non-governmental organizations, if there was no compulsory health pass, all of this would happen. would have gone much quieter, and most people would already be vaccinated.
secondary 3 mentality, in my opinion.
refuse a vaccine that is shown to save your life to piss off the government.
yeah, don't think there are many people in the government who are going to say 'oh my gawd, jacques gautier de saint-lambert did not take his vaccine'.
the only way you're going to 'piss off the government' is to be a financial burden if you have to be hospitalized with the covid, and the government won't really piss it off either pcq it's our taxes to all of us who will pay you for it.
go get the vaccine screech and tayeule.
i partially agree with you, on the other hand i have a hard time understanding why we target those who do not get vaccinated.
i have my 2 doses, i will use the passport, but my neighbor makes his own choices and the best i can do is respect them. whether they are bad or not since they do not belong to me.
if my neighbor does not get vaccinated, i always have the choice not to go and shake his hand, not to let my children play with theirs, etc.
i take my choices and let others take theirs.
in any case, there is no one more responsible than another for the pandemic. she
afflicts us all. some do not get vaccinated and have been in lockdown since last march. their choice only affects them. others get vaccinated and start to believe themselves invincible, relax the measures and become super contaminants. it is not just the choice of vaccine that affects the spread.
at this point it's not an opinion, it's a fact. it is completely silly to believe that it is the government which is behind all the decisions relating to the current situation and that if it was another political group it would be different.
the real problem is that the government is forcing vaccination through the back door. i am double vaccinated and i find that the idea of the passport is an injustice which is there to force those who do not want the vaccine to be vaccinated. basically, the government is imposing passports to piss off these people. and as a result, refusing the vaccine to piss off the government will just lead to more and more bickering. divide and rule.
there are indeed other ways of protesting. but i also think that anti-measure or vaccine protests lack essential ingredients for a successful / effective protest movement.
i think that when you want to mobilize against a government decision / measure, it is important to choose tactics while reflecting on their results.
example: workers who stop working, it puts pressure on the owner of the company by affecting his profit, it can also increase the visibility of their demands (by reducing access to a service to consumers for example).
what does not get vaccinated? can the results put pressure on the government by sending a gang of not vaccinated to the hospital? in the end, unvaccinated people pay the cost as well. if hospitalizations go up, we get even further away from what everyone wants (a return to normal / avoiding another confinement).
a protest movement also requires a sufficient number of protesters. if in a factory, 15 out of 100 employees decide to go on strike, one will not vote, two the picketing will be easily bypassed and the movement will run out of steam more quickly, we will question its legitimacy a lot (well, the movements are always questioned, but let's say that having a clearly majority percentage helps legitimacy. in 2012, the media had a blast with the student strike votes which rose to 51%).
i am not personally against the vaccine passport, but i have seen some interesting actions lately: a public action where people burned their passports, demonstrations with a high number of people (legitimacy) in the streets in france. these actions will not prevent the passport but have the potential to rally more people to their cause, attract media attention, etc. for this sort of thing to work in quebec and have these results, there would have to be a large number of people opposed to the passport / vaccine, and i don't believe that is the case. in france when the passport was announced, the percentage of people vaccinated was not the same as here (i seem to have read 40%?)
it is also possible to boycott the sectors of activity that require a health passport, which has an economic impact and it is not badly one of the only things that can create a drop of sweat of panic among people who have real power. nowadays. on the other hand, once again, it requires a large enough mobilization for it to have a real impact. if at the same time you have a majority of the population that is vaccinated and happy to be able to go to a restaurant rather than having a new confinement, or even a vaccinated population that feels more comfortable going there without having to being in contact with unvaccinated people, boycotting a small part of the population will not have the desired impact.
in the end, the problem (not in my opinion but hey haha) with the vaccine in quebec is that a large majority of the population adheres to it. if we leave reddit, people seem to welcome the passport quite positively too (and ok, maybe it's sheep according to some people but that doesn't change anything in my point on the strength of numbers in a protest movement).
so even refusing the vaccine lacks these ingredients. and the government will be able to blithely point the finger at this minority if the next wave gets out of hand (i hope the current vaccination rate will be sufficient to avoid that of course! and although i am vaccinated and for the passport, i am also not very pro caq or legault, i find their communication methods absolutely horrible. and i remember françois "on-se-gives-legault" from 2012 very well :)).
in short, i would be really surprised if we had a successful protest movement in quebec against these measures and the vaccine. ultimately we will have a few demonstrations like last winter. even with 250,000 in the streets and with mobilizations that last for months, the gains have the potential to be minimal or even non-existent at the end of a "successful" protest movement.
this is just my analysis of course. good day! :)
it's a flash that / r / kebekk is a dompe, see how comments with stupid arguments are going to upvote .. it feels like a festival of farfadaa
i am doubly vaccinated and i agree with you, on the other hand people have the right to refuse any preventive treatment.
also i am against the vaccination passport because it will certainly divide people, the vaccinated will have a feeling of superiority over others and a false sense of security.
if the passport is in place, the employees of the businesses concerned will have to be vaccinated or lose their jobs.
in conclusion, vaccinated people can spread the virus as much as an unvaccinated person and in addition to that essential businesses will not ask for a passport ... basically at the cinema you will be in '' security '' but not in the grocery store or convenience store.
i'm not even talking about people who take off their masks the second they step out of a store.
i admit that when my company announced that we would return to 100% presence, i told myself that i would have preferred not to be vaccinated and to be able to continue teleworking at 40-60% :-p
indeed, politicizing the taking of the vaccine damages the social contract. at the same time, given the global scale of the pandemic (!) it would have been hard to do it differently, especially in our time when we can take the pulse of the rest of the planet almost instantly. rebels will always be there, but in these cases it is the irresponsible childishness of spoiled adults fed on the grain of * alternate realities *, not rebels. seeing them fall one after the other, i tell myself that natural selection is going to catch up with them anyway one of these four, even if they endanger the rest of the community.
i would like to take the time to discuss the hypothetical 3rd dose: i have nowhere heard the argument to piss off the government. for the 3rd dose, all i hear is questions about whether this is a good idea versus sending doses to countries with low vaccination rates. knowing that it is a pandemic (therefore global) that we are talking about, in my opinion there is a certain logic in prioritizing other countries when our population will be mainly vaccinated 2 doses.
i have anti vaxx in my family and they don't do this to "piss off the government" they do it because they think the vaccine is going to kill us all, that he thinks the vaccine is not safe or whatevwr. i do not believe that there is a single anti vaxx in quebec who does it by simple political protest, it is to be uninformed about the positions of these to make such a long post about a completely premise. fake.
i will add that it is also extremely *** immature *** as a reaction ...
i tried to make several people understand, but it looks like there is nothing to be done. when you're thick, you're just thick.
it's drastic, but i'm happy that we're going to start restricting access to the unvaccinated. you are too cellar to live in society, you can stay locked up in your home.
not my problem if people are not vaccinated, i am not protected by others, if they catch the virus too bad you should have been vaccinated
# experimental
when politics are based on the virus it becomes political. when laws are put in place to violate or restrict human rights, it becomes a way bigger issue than just public health.
i agree with you. and pi criss that it is not strong as reasoning that. it thinks and acts like toddlers ...
of course, refusing the vaccine * to piss off the government * is a bad idea. in fact, in my opinion the basis of the problem and the tensions that we are living at the moment is that for the overwhelming majority of people vaccinated, there are no justifiable reasons to refuse the vaccine if you are part of the population. eligible and have no valid medical reasons.
the debates always come back to this basic question and being a strong / aggressive advocate for immunization myself, i have yet to see an argument that stands for the denial of immunization. note that i do not mix the issue of the vaccination passport with that, which in my opinion is just an incentive to increase the overall vaccination rate by a few%.
since the start of the pandemic it was clear that there were two ways out of the crisis:
* 1- we let the virus go until the achievement of collective immunity by a sufficient number of infections. *
this option is defended on the merits but would have led not only to an unacceptable number of deaths for most civilized countries but above all, the health systems are not even close to having the capacity for this scenario. concretely, this would therefore have meant keeping a more or less significant level of measures in place over the years to achieve collective immunity.
* 2- mass and rapid vaccination *
equivalent to option 1, over a much shorter period while drastically reducing deaths and hospitalizations. works on condition of having a strong adhesion of the population.
obviously, almost all governments have chosen option 2. and it works. we have regained a lot of freedom (not all of them yet, i agree) but all this is only due to the vaccinated people. so the latter see the unvaccinated a bit as profiteers and easily become emotional / cringe at the possibility of new measures while their share of the effort is being made. with reason. and the debates follow, so the cause remains once again the misunderstanding of the reasons for refusing vaccination.
want to piss off the government? get your two doses vaccinated, three if it comes to that but once it is done, go get tested because you have a little snot on your nose. it would be my way of protesting and forcing a quick exit from the crisis, we vaccinate 95% of the population and the latter suddenly stops being tested because at this point, what's the point?
thank you for expressing your thoughts so clearly.
at the end of the day, the fact remains that "receiving the vaccine is important to considerably reduce the risk of developing a severe form of covid-19 and to further clog hospitals" and "françois legault and his ministers are managing the crisis like esties de cabochons "are not mutually exclusive concepts.
this is exactly how medical authority is supplanted by leadership, taking lives instead of saving them.
tobacco kills more people annually than kovid, why is it not banned?
refusing a vaccine for personal choice is not a problem, it is a personal choice. its remains private.
covid never affected me
i am not old enough to die
i have no chance of catching it in my living and job environment.
no thanks. i've never had any, i don't want to know until the end of the mess.
i don't know about the government, but it pisses me off anyway
if the population at risk is vaccinated, the vaccine works and i am not sick, who do i endanger if i am not vaccinated?
the idiots say and do bullshit. there is nothing for them to do. we must guard against their stupidity by hoping that after their death the next cohort will be less stupid. hoping fb et cie close by then there is hope!
do you remember when the question asked of biden and harris during the televised debates as to whether they supported the idea of vaccinating the american nation. and these two replied that if trump advised taking it they would simply refuse because it came from him. it's hard not to consider the entrenched political aspect of this affair.
sometimes i wonder if having one person in dominatrix follow to give the vaccine would change a ton of people their minds.
let them refuse their second dose. these people exclude themselves from society, and that's a clear positive for us.
> use personal and public health as a means of pressure, i think there is a slippage not to be taken.
okidou! could you point me to other slippages not to be taken that have taken place in this whole story, or if this is the only one?
> contestation in politics can take many forms
relevant, much less damaging, and much more effective.
aside from voting, say, you would say what are the other options dissenters have to effectively challenge?
the more time goes by the more i see stories of russians trying to discredit vaccines in markets that can receive their vaccine.
i wouldn't be surprised if they did the same with the americans and by extension canada. just to hurt.
and alas, many have been brainwashed. no matter what we show them, they will select what will be convenient for them.
don't care, still didn't get the jab
passport. vaccine. all over. now.
put on your panties, squeaky government osti that i may have been capable of.
reddit in french is an experience compared to the english site.
this “vaccine” does not have the definition of a vaccine. it's something other than a vaccine. this is why people hesitate.
yes and no you are the stupid i am a wand
those who do not want to be vaccinated must respect them ... it is thanks to people like that that humanity lasts over time. example: if a magnificent and irresistible fruit is discovered and all mankind decides to taste it because it is scientifically proven that the fruit is edible but ultimately deadly, mankind is gone. do you now understand why anti-vaccines exist? too risky for the survival of the human species to all make the same choices.
just put all the antivaxx people together, release the virus, survivors (if any) see the effects of it and then they get the vaccine, and if they’re still not “believing” in vaccines well then back in the covid area you go
i respect everyone's choice but objectively since the beginning i have not known anyone who died of it and my mother-in-law works in the chsld and has never seen a disaster but a management horror that has deprived people of their regular treatment more than any other thing. statistically there was no more mortality either. why so hard on it when there are many other far more serious causes of death?
i'm not scared of the vaccine, and i'm not scared of covid. everything indicates that the overwhelming majority of people who pound him are doing very well. i am for people not at risk to go quietly and seek their natural immunity, and for others to be vaccinated as they wish.
on the other hand, i am afraid of the thirst for power of governments who see opportunities like this to create a panic that will justify all kinds of measures to achieve objectives that they already had for a long time. and i think so, if it weren't for the smear campaign against all the unvaccinated, we could make our voices heard and push back the government, as we could have in the days of the curfew.
yup. a little detour on r / nursing will show you the shitshow that the measures aim to avoid.
> if you're lucky, you won't get anything.
do you have any stats? i was genuinely curious. i have my 2 doses precisely because i don't want long after-effects but i don't think that the majority of people who get by have after-effects .... i think it's rather unlucky you are going to have after-effects.
yes, but the vaccine makes him magnetic! just like political parties, they are polarized!
/ s, in case.
i regret that i cannot do more than give you a +1 and thank you for the clarity of your words.
we no longer count the number of bans in this thread. reminds that rule 2 applies to transphobic comments. critical and rigorous debates are allowed, discriminatory remarks are not.
simon jolin-barrette may well be 34, but he's a boomer at heart.
basically, what is the problem that the government is trying to solve here? was the current situation a source of problem? are we looking to improve something? because honestly, i just don't see what the point of this change is.
i'm out of the loop regarding this topic, can someone send me a neutral post on this that just gives the facts? thank you
i'm starting to believe that this measurement is a lightning rod. it is there to attract controversy specifically so that the government will back down afterwards and be able to say "see, we are listening" while having exactly what it wants with the rest.
i really felt embarrassed to be a quebecker when i learned that. a real government of the caq.
people should be protesting en masse against this instead of the vaccine.
what is transphobic in the law?
i've never understood, no matter your gender or gender opinion, why it's important to know a person's sex in a form.
if you tick male, do you get the same treatment as if you tick female or whatever? if so, this question is already useless at the base ...
if not, there is already another more serious problem that should be solved in our society.
i think that there is a way to respect the rights of trans people by mentioning the gender they identify with without making do with their biological sex, and this regardless of the surgeries and treatment they may have had.
there's so much unnecessary info on my driver's license.
-my size
-the color of my eyes
it just constantly reminds me that i'm not 6 feet! / bad joke
but seriously on the other hand, what do we do when the little sticker of my address changed back is gone? is it important? should i ask for another one?
the question is why? what is the goal, what is the interest of this law which causes inconvenience to transgender people?
thank you caq for not understanding the issues, once again.
it's like changing the legal age for using marijuana from 18 to 21. it was a populist move to please the conservative electorate, based on opinions, not facts.
right now, history is repeating itself. once again, we pass a law on a whim, without really having looked into the subject. it makes no sense to modify the external, or internal, sexual organs to define a civil status.
just because a government is active does not mean that it makes informed decisions.
ps: seriously, would a breast augmentation or reduction count in surgical procedures?
i am not responding to the post, but i will express myself here because it is impossible for me to express myself elsewhere without "getting to" people i love.
this project hurts me so much. i am a cis woman in a relationship with a trans man. i was with him during the name change and gender designation process. it wasn't an easy time, it was so hard to watch him suffer so much with the wait times and the uncertainty. but i was infinitely grateful for the quebec criteria and to know that this difficult stage would soon be behind us.
today my heart is bleeding. my lover has taken this step and i dare to believe that he is now out of danger, but i think of all the others in his situation who will not be so lucky.
i'm not sure if anyone will see my post, i'm not really expecting a response, i just can't write this somewhere else without revealing my boyfriend's identity.
what was the problem since 2013 exactly?
i have several lgbtq + friends and nothing has happened / has happened that could in any way justify such a backtracking of the rights of these people.
worse there will never be! it's not your life, squeal their patience astia!
one of the problem but very little mentioned for us "trans", is that in the eyes of the law, public toilets, sport (as much the majority at the amateur level) are divided into sex not gender, it gives a beautiful door for the prosecution or civil against us if a transphobic person or a zealous one decides not to be satisfied that i used the toilet which corresponds to me and yes a girl of my size, very feminine and with breasts can quickly become a risk in the men's bathroom and i speak especially at the insult and intimidation levels, it's easy after saying to hold back, but estrogen increases the amount of times you will have a desire and sight that i do not intend to do the operation of the parties i am told that i am less able-bodied, but personally i do not want thanks to the operation to be forced to pass me a whore of ultra regulated dildo of 9 inches every whore of the week to ensure the dilation. without counting that this kind of distinction opens a beautiful door to the transphobic exploited as well as a beautiful loophole for future laws which could, at the goodwill of certain parties, for one can more make us lose our victories by legislating on the rights to the sex and prioritizing them and all that for what? we are so can that we deserve to this point to do this crushed without being consulted? and why in the end it is asking us to crash at the goodwill of the cis and their judgment, on a fucking subject that even if they know a minimum will never really understand what we are going through because they do not live it precisely .
frankly if they wanted to do it on purpose to find the most cruel and backward way to respond to the supreme court of canada ruling they could not have done better. it is gratuitous and cruel as a section of the law.
what is a binary?
why not keep the mention 'sex' in the official documents, i did not understand very well?
fundamental rights lol
sort by controversial…
baguette
cyborg jolin-barette proves once again that there is dead inside and there puppets ideal reactionary
is my uncle's conservative party doing this?
« shocked pika pika face »
this shot blew my mind.
hello, what is this law about?
the government be like *
seems like everyone is focusing on what shows on the birth certificate forgetting what i think is the main problem.
that there is sex and gender on the birth certificate (a document not really used on a daily basis) seems a lesser evil to me, * if the notion of gender was the one found on other official documents *.
indeed, everyone seems to be saying that the problem is that it is still the sex that is found on the other identity documents and that adding the gender on the birth certificate does not change anything if it is not used elsewhere. it is very true.
why not then campaign for * gender * to appear on these identity documents rather than sex? semantically, that would be more appropriate than continuing to display sex everywhere and allowing people to change it according to their gender identity.
for those who did not indicate a specific gender identity, the system would only have to take gender as the "default value" until it is changed according to the wishes of the person concerned.
obviously, it's a bigger job to undertake because it involves upgrading a lot of large systems that don't move quickly, but wouldn't that be a better solution?
we have to stop disgusting people with bogus claims and invent new genres that are not based on science at all. trans have the same rights as anyone else.
frankly, the stories of transphobia ... the victimization complex of some people is beyond the limits. you have to learn to harden your skin at some point. being a butterfly doesn't make life easier.
to read the people here i am happy that quebec solidaire is only 10 deputies :)
[removed]
[removed]
based sjb😳😳😳😳😳 ??????
stupid fucking idiots….
am a non binary toaster and i have the right yo change my identity if i want
there is a petition against this www.change.org/stop_bill_2
why is this all in italian?
i reserve my judgment until the study of this bill and their responses to briefs and committee work.
sounds like a change to fit within the existing record keeping framework * and * fit into a * canadian * court judgment, but the repercussions have not been fully seen.
maybe i'm a little too catholic for the trans situation to be my problem, but from what i understand it only legally simplifies the gender of the person. i see a transphobic law as a law which takes away more fundamental rights of the person for his choices.
there are only 2 genres
the wokes are not happy
transphobe? cmon now.
he's just too based for you
never bothered to learn french because i'm lazy. anyone care to tell me what this says?
gender and sex are the same thing.
i would like that every person who comments here that them, find that it is not transphobic, post the source of their expertise in the matter, do you have several years of personal experience as a trans person? maybe you are part of an lgbtq + committee in your community? or did you do any gender social science studies at university?
or you've studied 300 hours of ben shapiro videos.
will he be able to one day not fuck up?
thanks mods for removing the transphobic comment
simon jolin-barette may well go eat a full diaper.
i like it sbj.
> i just don't see what the usefulness of this change is.
honestly, it smacks of distraction.
there are probably a bunch of other things in this bill there and there are also a lot of other things that go under the radar when we focus on it.
probably a dev who left it in unix time haha
lol, vaccinations from "epoch".
in 1980, there was no vaccine and no covid. as if by chance !! i did my research.
it's great the increase is amazing!
this is proof that the government had planned the covid! it's bourassa's fault! / s
r/dataisbeautiful
i just went there and the achelle is from march 30
hahaha there is someone who shit his ladder
how else do you expect this government to demonstrate that it is by far the most effective of the last 50 years in vaccinating against covid?
you should crosspost on / r / dataisugly
/r/softwaregore/
the first medical research on mrna [date 1971] ( at the time, its potential was already salivating and we dreamed of the day when it could be used against cancers or in vaccines. enough to close the hatch to those who claim that the covid vaccines have been "rushed and blocked", as if the scientific community had started working on these vaccines in january 2020 ... we have been working on it for 50 years, the pandemic was only the spark plug that put the pedal to the bottom and allowed an unprecedented global collaboration.
this is for the historical anecdote. after that it is completely useless as given for the vaccines given lol
thanks to this error, a lot of people are now being educated on / r / quebec in connection with dev codes. so, it is now very relevant as information!
the conspirators were right, the existence of covid has been known since 1970.
ah, the specs received didn't mention a start date, so that's the way to deliver the code. wait until we tell you to do otherwise. slice of life of a programmer-civil servant.
it's been like this for a few days already
r/dataisugly
here the graph is ok
[
we have improved in tabarnack since late 2020 / early 2021 that's clear.
dirty dates
[
[hold your chart, would you prefer it like this] (
definitely, but damn it shouldn't end up online haha
indeed, in unix time if the value is 0 then it corresponds to 1970-01-01 00:00 utc.
it just takes a point in the data that is in error (ie which is 0) to fuck the entire graph.
what does that mean to a person like
me who has no base in info?
yeah, as soon as we see january 1970, we know it's a computer bug and that someone put `date (0)` in their code
lack of upvote here .... tsss
no 5g either! finally, they have pt reasons ...
yeah, it's big brain time
literally 1984
yes, they updated it.
it must hurt a ladder ...
if you try to correct without being asked and you make a mistake, you're going to be a lot more wrong than if you let it go.
good ol' cgi
at least it's not a windows machine, the windows epoch is january 1, 1980.
a date encoding format.
basically instead of saving a date in a complex format, you just keep the number of seconds that have elapsed since a reference point. the point of reference is january 1, 1970.
if your numerical date value is 0, then your date is january 1, 1970.
if your numeric date value is 1617730500, well your date is when i wrote this message.
why it's done the same: it takes up less memory and disk space, and it makes comparisons and some operations faster.
some drawbacks because nothing is perfect: there are small hang-ups when it comes to converting to human readable time, it lacks a bit of granularity and it does not support certain edge cases as well.
but in many cases, it does the job well enough.
january 1, 1970 is an arbitrary date that has been chosen to be "time 0" for computers, this is called "unix time".
that the government does not know how to control the pandemic is one thing but bro hire competent javascript developers xd
but yes it is clear!
lucy ?
hmm does it always depend on which edge it's going to come out?
even if you don't make a mistake, someone else will try to blame their mistakes on you.
cgi are not smart enough to use utc, they will just make a string with the date localized weird which will piss off other programs made by other company but which use date strings with different localization
if i'm not mistaken, [quebec.ca] ( is designed and developed by an in-house team! i would attribute it more to the fact that since last march the work must not have been restful for these people.
cgi would squeal an excel sheet snaphot not cropper. it can't be them.
how does cgi? i stumbled upon it by chance probably within 10 minutes before it updated, i have other things to do than photoshop a vaccination chart.
and for those who are wondering, the dates may well be before the zero point called epoch, they are just negative values.
thanks for the explanation. very clear
skilled developers don't want to work for 54k / year, 3 weeks of vanity and a rotten boss that's shielded by convention
for real serious yes. basket raining would not have been a fail if it was the case
we are now austria-hungary!
it puts into perspective the cliché that "in europe, everything is close while in north america, everything is far". the majority of the canadian population (plus a sizeable portion of the us population, along with chicago and detroit) live in an area significantly smaller than mainland europe.
honor to the explorers and coureurs des bois who have sailed this all over the place!
mamma mia, okay?!  in my mind the great lakes were like...as large as france.
it's funny that they specifically included lac saint-jean but not the other major lakes-but-not-of-the-great lakes of the st. lawrence.
ye, lac saint-jean is considered a great astheur lake!
i have said it before: i am surprised that the valley of the st. lawrence and the region of the great lakes were not the cradle of a civilization like the romans, the persians, the egyptians, the aztecs, the incas, etc.
ah! here is the formidable marseille-milan-innsbruck-vienna-warsaw axis!
and berlin is pretty much in the woods ...
saint-lawrence, yes
fun fact i learned from the original thread: great lakes are the world's largest body of freshwater by area, but the second by volume. number one in volume is lake baikal in siberia which alone contains more water than the 5 great lakes combined. it is more than 3 times deeper than the deepest of the 5 great lakes. while searching the internet for more information, i came across [this drawing] ( which puts the 2 in perspective.
as a town planner who has to make and critique maps, i find europe far too pale .... a little shade of gray higher up would be even better.
dude, there is no scale.
wow. according to that, i come from brittany, and i now live in graz, austria. interesting.
it's me where st-lawrence is not beautiful as a translation
the next world of d&d is here after the forgotten realms and eee ... the others
as demonstrated in chicago today
it's interesting to see as others say, it puts everything in perspective.
hmmmmm
this is what would happen if trump joined peladeau and ran for pq leader.
a wall built around quebec to keep all the other cultures out.... and then ontario filling it up with wayer.
ha they are so small
trippy
st laurence is a seaway not a river.
[deleted]
yes, but the difference in population is not to be overlooked. there are not as many big cities and capitals here vs in europe. and when you live in quebec (if we exclude montreal), you need at least 7 hours by road to get to a big city (boston), while in europe, you are always less than 3 hours from several other cities. important in all directions.
for canada yes, because the north is so cold that we dare not approach, but the us them they occupy quite a bit all the space.
for me it's crazy, because montreal-toronto looks a lot closer than austria-italy. yet seen in the same way, it is the same case.
doesn't compute in my brain.
that too
[
maybe they came to have a look but when they realized that everything was freezing in the winter and it was -30 they decided to stay further south.
there was one: [haudenosaunee] (
all the people you put had no winter (or very light in the case of the romans).
it was not because there was not a civilization similar to yours that there was not one which occupied the territory.
i am not an expert in the field so i do not know if this is 100% true but it seems that it is mainly because there were not that many animals easily domesticated in america.
video on the subject that i personally find very interesting but it seems that there are a few historians who do not agree: 
there were no native plants for intensive farming or large animals that were easy to tame. north america was never destined to have great civilizations.
wheat, barley, oats, they all come from the same big part of the world.
the book "guns, germs and steel" is quite a bit on this subject, that is, how particular circumstances caused great civilizations to come from certain regions.
is well too fret
the quebec nation >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> all
ours today, right? obviously we brought with us the technological and cultural baggage of europe, but hey it's not as if the romans had left the cavemen either.
[deleted]
the st-lawrence is a river, the seway is the system of locks, canals and channels (man made) that allows the oceangoing boats to travel along it.
somebody needs to go back to grade 10 geography lol
it's not vlair who has chicoutimi
in fact, to add a little clarification: in europe, there are no big cities as big as new york or los angeles, but many, * a lot * of medium-sized cities (the size of montreal or smaller). but there are hardly any empty spaces between these cities, everything is covered with villages the size of our small towns (chicoutimi, sherbrooke). whereas in north america, we have huge cities with almost nothing in between, like dozens of villages with less than 5,000 inhabitants.
edit: after london with ≈9m people, we fall to 3.7m (berlin) and 3.2m (madrid). [source] ( i left russia and the middle east, because \ # 1 is istanbul.
ok, but ... what are you trying to say, taking a city on the outskirts of the densely populated area (quebec) and pretending that the nearest big city (montreal) doesn't exist ?
for the vast majority of the canadian population, there is a large city within a 2-3 hour drive. obviously it's less dense than in europe, but the cliché of the great outdoors and long distances is irrelevant to most people. while the opposite cliché, that europe is so small that you can visit 4 countries in a weekend, is less true than it seems. (it is still true to some extent!)
there is quite a bit of space in the middle of the us which is practically empty. not as empty as northern canada, but much less populated than the coasts.
"fa frette calisse" - jacques cartier, 1534
"not hot for the gut" - samuel de champlain, 1604
in south america there were civilizations. but the indigenous societies of the north, it is harder to argue that they were organized in civilization.
you didn't get his point. he does not say that there was no civilization, he even refers to two civilizations in america.
the point is, it wasn't a great empire-style civilization. the haudenosaunee didn't cover the great lakes either, just a part.
after civilizations in the current territory of the us there were some with large structures, they collapsed with the epidemics that the europeans brought.
french polynesia and europe 
[
why does french have two words for rivers. today i learned "fleuve and rivières" is a river. lol /fail
it is better to go there by urban areas, however. municipal boundaries are irrelevant in this kind of discussion. paris has only 2m people, but its metropolitan area has 12m.
very good point brought. on the other hand, you have to be careful that the limits of cities in europe and north america are very different. for example, the city of paris itself is 2.1m while its agglomeration is 10.8m. the city limits are smaller than los angeles which is \ ~ 10x bigger. the same goes for milan for example.
and if you go to asia it's just crazy. mumbai has 21,000 people per km².
“1 like and i french my sister”
cases are descending very rapidly in canada, the united states, the united kingdom, norway, sweden, denmark, the netherlands, germany, poland, and russia, all from the beginning or the middle. january.
what do all of these places have in common? they are all in the same latitudes, so all benefit from the major seasonal ~~ effect of quebec curfews!
not to mention that there are plenty of places like ours with an outbreak of cases in december after the pandemic subsided in november. but in the uk, it corresponded with an increase in the prevalence of a certain variant, so we automatically assumed that it was 70% more contagious. nice scientific work.
the exaggerated lockdowns will continue as long as the government refuses to admit that there are other forces that have an immense impact on the progression of the pandemic. contact with the virus is only part of the battle, susceptibility to infections is another very important.
\*covid\* : not stonks
from his private page which he shares with bezos and silicon valley.
a.
with luck, city dwellers will not spoil the low rate we have in the region as in the fall with parties and bars and part of quebec will get by.
... at 2 meters.
fyi here in germany we have had a curfew (8 p.m. to 5 a.m.) since december 11 and non-essential stores closed since mid-november ... we will know on february 14 if it continues and i would tend to say yes . in addition, since monday of this week we must wear an n95 mask in stores and public transport. faque .... that's it. when we compare ourselves we console ourselves, eh, quebeckers?
have you noticed that there still hasn't been any 14-day quarantine, or airports closed to incoming flights? in addition to reopening schools with the same ratio of students ...
but it has to be our fault, let's see. how could it be captain legault's fault?
wait, what is the seasonal effect that applies in january but not in december?
ah yes, the famous trips to the region in the fall of city dwellers, when the job and school started again.
not only that, but the damned townspeople move from one house to another and kiss everyone on the mouth in the regions to make a community transmission increasing the cases drastically! it is the city dwellers' fault that the rates in a region like sagenay have gone higher than what we have ever seen in montreal. damn tourists, it spreads the virus on vacation about 10,000 times stronger than at home!
without city dwellers, the regional voucher would not have provided community transmission to achieve these rates.
worse, it is obvious that the city will not get out of it, even if a region like montreal was perfectly able to lower its rate under its demographic weight after the first wave, and its rate is lowering very quickly at the moment after the second. wave.
damn town!
the guys from montreal who come to the region, they go to a chalet in nature.
guys from regions who come to montreal, they go to shopping centers, cosco etc.
i think you are mistaking who is transmitting to whom.
va *
i went to the region once in 2020 to protect them (i usually go 5-6 times a year) after spending a week in isolation at the chalet, i literally left after an hour because i was there yelling at my family there because they didn't want to know anything about keeping their distance. i never went inside, i went shit in the creek at the bottom of the field, i put on a damn mask the whole time i was in their yard and they are not able to touch me and keep their distance .
this sub is 90% montrealers ...
i agree with you.
good luck! interesting that you had the same rapid rise in cases during the month of december as us in quebec (despite stores closed and curfews at home long before us), with also the kind of lull in november. i went to 
and i don't understand the big drop in germany after december 24th followed by the big rise in early january, maybe people were getting less tested, or a very different school schedule or something? but, just like us, big descent in january, in your case since january 11, let's hope it continues.
what do people in germany think about the restrictions, when cases have only recently started to go down quickly despite the stores being closed for so long and the curfew for a month?
germany imposed a curfew because there were riots against the lockdown
the days lengthen from the end of december (winter solstice), which has effects on the immune system. but we don't know how much, i couldn't have predicted that things would start to go better so early in january; we will undoubtedly learn a lot more with this pandemic when we see what is happening and there will be more attention on this subject to study it better.
if you tell yourself that it takes a few weeks for the effect to be felt, plus the fact that it takes 4-5 days before it affects the number of cases, that puts us around january 2 to january 16 (1 to 3 weeks + 5 days) after the winter solstice. i'm saying this purely theoretically, it would take time for the body to react to the lengthening day (and the changes in melatonin levels that this implies), but i don't think there is any studies specific to the human immune system and changes after december 22. the drop in cases in quebec began around january 5-6, 11-12 in the us, 10-11 in the uk.
i cannot also explain to you the different dynamics in the south of europe and in several countries of the southern hemisphere. but each region seems to have its pattern. for many countries like south america or africa, we test less, it's difficult to know if the data is as reliable.
if you feel like it,  this article touches on different aspects including that of days that lengthen.
[removed]
a little / s and it's good!
well done 👏 playing the political diversion game to you.
better than "x vs y" to distract short public attention.
people from the region come to montreal by ambulance and are already sick with covid. they come to pass it on to our hospitals
well yes you thing, my 6 hour drive to go squeal about a costco with snobs. there's one here a costco. other than that, we don't have any. the mtl guys who go hunting and to the chalet, came to the restaurant, go there on the microphone and all and all. pi afterwards when the cases go up y treat us as a co-blood, laughing. montreal is fun to make big dirty cash, but it's less funny in times of pandemic. but hey, it's not as if the city attracts the opportunists
the guy from montreal who goes to the region ... stops in all the convenience stores on the road and does his grocery store near his chalet.
why do you think they sell rosé at the saq in la tuque?
the world of montreal was going to the laurentians because it was not red. there are outbreaks in the bars of the lower st. lawrence after influencers from the big cities came to party because everything was closed in montreal.
it's funny because since the total containment, it's not montreal and quebec that seem to respect the instructions the most if we got used to the cases. the big cities are red from the start and in the regions things are going well except when suddenly the world of big cities has a reason to come.
i'm really not mistaken who is transmitting to whom.
i correct, my s is going for a walk.
nenon, i am sure that like the annecdotes cherry picked on this post about nice people who isolate themselves in cabins on their own, montrealers and the people of quebec are hyper hyper respectful of the sanitary instructions. probably as respectful as they were for the beaches of gaspesie this summer! (yes yes sarcasm here)
it's clearly not everyone from montreal or quebec, and when you say so, it frustrates people who feel they are being targeted. but with the amount of people in the big centers, even if it's just 0.1% of those people who lack respect and judgments and spoil the regions during our holidays, it still makes tens of thousands of people to come to us. spoil it. no offense to those who answer me, i trust that you are sincere and that you pay attention, but the minority is still giving the majority a bad reputation.
> and i don't understand the big drop in germany after december 24th followed by the big rise in early january, maybe people were getting less tested
between christmas and new year's day, the germans are all on leave, so maybe the test labs were also closed (or partly).
> what do people in germany think about the restrictions, when cases have only recently started to go down quickly despite the stores closed for so long and the curfew for a month?
in my city (which is not very big, just 350,000 inhabitants) the majority of people follow the rules, wear the mask (even the new decision with the n95) and distance themselves (it's not easy for the germans, they love to stick in a line!). on the other hand there are people who demonstrate against the restrictions (especially in berlin from what i heard), as in several places in the world besides.
i think like everywhere else people are tired and see each other anyway. the churches are still open (not all of them, but more from what i've read) and not everyone is following the restrictions. for example, there is a beauty center downstairs from my house and the good woman continues to see clients ... seeing that, we say to ourselves that maybe this explains why it is not going down as quickly as supposed.
e: good luck to you too! i miss the poutine ...
a nationwide curfew to prevent a couple of thousand from rioting in berlin? well yes you!
it is pcq the numbers were increasing seriously and with the approach of christmas and its christmas markets they did not want to take any chances.
seriously, when i look at the case curve as well as the seasonal influenza curve, i really feel like there is a dependent variable that science has yet to find. maybe it's because of astrology! :-d
chalice that i can not wait for the big turnaround to take place and for it to become the general thought.
if someone really needs an s to catch a text that reeks sarcasm at this point is sarcastic it's just a lost cause at this point.
didn't my dripping sarcasm pierce the hydrophobic umbrella of your disbelief?
you could play the game of learning to conjugate.
another person who brings politics to a non-political subject.
you don't seem to know the same region and the same montreal as i think.
but listen, in the end blame people for your mistakes, that's fine :)
to put in the bug traps?
if you want :)
corrected * gone *
ultimately, even the city / region debate is a distraction. it suits the government well that we each point the finger at each other instead of criticizing them.
i live in quebec and i don't want to go to the gaspé (or elsewhere) in times of pandemic, i want to be able to go for a walk before / after my night overtime shifts by teleworking.
fat
ultimately the bulk of cases are still chslds, schools and workplaces ...
my parents are independent in their house, i have no children, i work from home pi i do a big grocery store once every 3 weeks.
i can not squeeze it well well more than that the lemon pi it is not in my walk of 1km in a radius of 600m from the house that i would infect a lot of people ... in the middle of the night.
fac ... at some point the government can you stop pissing me off with the measures that change nothing.
we have strict measures for months and months because we still don't test enough and we still don't make good contact tracing.
for now i respect the measures, but the curfew at some point i'll have it up my ass soon.
being in the region, i would be even more in tabarnak:
a curfew in abitibi to counter cases on the island of montreal is not bad.
what made you move to germany?
[curfews have always been measures against insurgencies not against viruses] (
and the demonstrations take place in the capitals but people usually come from all over the country. should get out of his village a bit.
i agree but given the following comments ...
a few years ago i read an article in a science journal about research that showed that about 50% of quebecers (between 40 and 60% in the rest of the world) are "functional illiterate". what this means is that while almost 100% of people can read, about 50% cannot detect and understand a figure of speech or implication in the text. about 50% of people will therefore read a message and take it literally.
as i said elsewhere, the sarcasm in everyday life is also body language and tone of voice. writing on the internet we lose the subtleties that give a clue to sarcasm.
what some see as sarcasm, others see it as another weirdo on the internet with extreme or unrelated views.
here, you have to give them all the info (the right info there, not the bad one, eh) with a nice big silver spoon.
it's the internet. sarcasm doesn't exist because no one hears you say it silly to get the point across.
edit: since the world seems fru after me or we don't seem to understand what i meant here, i copy what i have explained elsewhere.
a few years ago i read an article in a science journal about research that showed that about 50% of quebecers (between 40 and 60% in the rest of the world) are "functional illiterate". what this means is that while almost 100% of people can read (in quebec), around 50% cannot detect and understand a figure of speech or an implication in the text. about 50% of people will therefore read a message and take it literally.
as i said elsewhere, the sarcasm in everyday life is also body language and tone of voice. writing on the internet we lose the subtleties that give a clue to sarcasm.
what some see as sarcasm, others see it as another weirdo on the internet with extreme or unrelated views.
i have been walking the internet for about 20 years. it's been 20 years since the world has misunderstood internet sarcasm, and it makes it stubborn and bickering. i'm not saying that to shit the world, it's just reality.
i chalice it up like in the 40
it's understood?
what mistakes are you talking about?
you're really lousy with your corrections
🍆 💦 💦
i blame the government and the people. legault could close the regions to non-essential travel easily, and the world could have the good sense to be careful in the city as in the region. y could ease the confinement in the region. but seeing that the world does not know how to live, they will travel to the orange and yellow zones and complain that montreal is not unblocking with the regions. so for his popular vote, legault is better off just saying no to everyone.
i understand the curfew. a rimouski kn has hardly any case and it is the bars which made the biggest outbreaks. if we put a curfew and close non-essential travel, the regions will do much better and everyone will be able to visit a few people during the day. with less than 5 cases a day in my area, it frustrates me not to be able to go and chat with one of my boyfriends of day guys all alone just because a gang of young people are going to have a party at 150 in a bar in the evening with outside world.
i'm not against everyone in the city, but against the minority who can't live, and unfortunately we can't sort it out.
honestly awful. imagine being brainwashed as to think total strangers going about on their day are armed enemies. on top of that, you have people that still think hes right. may they rest in peace.
what a drama. i'm not religious, but part of me hopes that in death they could find the peace they believed in.
i'm still heartbroken. just imagine the fear among muslim immigrants since this event. the trauma for the children who were present ... so sad.
a must read, an article by jeff yates published today on the radicalization of the killer. morbidly fascinating ... [ urbaine( .ca / news / 1766695 / twitter-neonazi-alexandre-bissonnette-attack-mosquee-quebec? fromsearch = true)
i am not the only one who has morons in my facebook feed that posts inflammatory anti muslim articles, disguised as “protect our values” bullshit.
i hold these retardees, in part, responsible.
i still think about mr. soufiane more particularly.
not because his death is more tragic than that of the other victims, but simply because he was the kind of person we remember.
we didn't know each other personally, but he was a man who was always smiling and in a highly contagious mood.
i just can't imagine someone looking at him even for a moment and feeling hate.
his children deserved to spend many years with him, all the families and members of this community too.
the ease with which i forget this tragedy (and all the tragedies for that matter) is disturbing.
j'aimerais mieux voire ça passer au nouvelles que "he who must not be named". his name should never be said again even when discussing his case because he should be known as the murderer of 6 muslim quebec citizens. peace and love to their families.
i attended the funerals of three of them which happened shortly after in montreal. i stood in front of the coffins and prayed for them with thousands of other people (including justin trudeau and philippe couillard and denis coderre among many others, muslims and non-muslims). and i thought, here it is: the result of hatred was in front of our eyes. what is positive is that everyone was united (or at least seemed to be) that day against this hatred.
see that it was not considered a terrorist attack
it should be on display somewhere. maybe at the mosque itself.
my sympathies to loved ones.
or sick. you would not believe the number of people who suffer paranoid delusions. thankfully, most of them are too disorganized to be a threat.
i think if i was cut down by pure evil.....i would want to know that that evil and it's influence was removed. it's not really revenge that though. not sure what the word is in french nor english.
imagine being brainwashed as to think total strangers going about on their day are ^being ^brainwashed ^as ^to ^think ^total ^strangers ^going ^about ^on ^their ^day ^are ^^being ^^brainwashed ^^as ^^to ^^think ^^total ^^strangers ^^going ^^about ^^on ^^their ^^day ^^are ^^armed ^^enemies.
no part of me believes this is possible, there is no "better place" after death. that's why i fuck bissonnette and people like him.
vrm good article. there are plenty of nazis and platforms to support them.
it sucks me up.
i had started to read it but i was busy and moved on. thank you for reminding me, i have finished reading it.
> others were posted on one of the world's leading neo-nazi forums, which is still online. according to the domaintools scan tool, this site is currently hosted by vanwatech, jim watkins' company. the latter is also the owner of 8kun, the site where "q", the central figure of the qanon conspiracy, posted his messages.
8kun is 8chan on steroids. that's everything people have always claimed 8chan was, but worse, minus pedophiles (and even that i'm not sure). this is the perfect example of what i have always said: censorship does not eliminate the problem, it only moves it and covers it up. 8chan would never have grown to the size it had if 4chan hadn't censored and 8chan would never have evolved into the present 8kun if it weren't for all the attempts to shut it down. when you send people with marginal views to extremists, don't be surprised when they become extremists.
what values? hatred?
is this the man who was a grocer, and who sacrificed his life to save others.
what a hero.
> see that it was not considered a terrorist attack
the penalty in canada for terrorism is lower than for a single murder. so if you put smoke bombs in the metro for cause x, you can be accused of terrorism. but if there is at least one victim, it makes more sense for the crown to choose murder.
the law on that is stupid. terrorism shouldn't be a crime in itself, it should be a factor that worsens another crime, like hate crime.
a terrorist attack must have as its goal the perpetration of terror, with an ideology to go behind: political, religious, etc. so there is a dream behind the gesture.
here, i believe it is a dangerous patient who slipped and made 6 murders.
4 years ... it's amazing how much we forget and how important the days of commemoration are.
when some don't understand, they reiterate their ignorance in the most pityful fortification you could ever witness.
taking a position on the question "what is after death" is just as stupid on both sides.
"there is something!" = stupid
"there is nothing!" = stupid
religions are obviously human inventions, so we can ignore them. but after death ... the only position that makes sense is "we don't know".
> this is the perfect example of what i have always said: censorship does not eliminate the problem, it only displaces and conceals it. 8chan would never have grown to the size it had if 4chan hadn't censored and 8chan would never have evolved into the present 8kun if it weren't for all the attempts to shut it down. when you send people with marginal views to extremists, don't be surprised when they become extremists.
richard spencer has admitted that being misrepresented has done him immense harm. he could not organize his events as before. milo has become completely irrelevant, he can no longer benefit materially from his propagation of hatred among the normies. alex jones is also completely out of date compared to a time when he was platformed directly into the mainstream (like milo and spencer for that matter). the conspiratorial leaders in quebec have lost the wind in the sails they had. yes these people keep a base, but their momentum is broken. their income disappears. etc.
besides, the article seems to go directly in contradiction with what you say. that's exactly their goal, to stay in the mainstream places to whistle their dog whistles to convince normies. if you're made to follow pages that are not ironically called "rapefugee", your may have been a norm, your not just "fringe opinions" screeches. you just lack a political framework to place the pieces (nazism, fascism, etc.).
then from a historical point of view, in italy and in germany in the years 1920-30, the “free market of ideas” ca ends with mussolini and hitler. the two fall with bombs and grapeshot, not with a civil discussion, not with an exchange of ideas, not with free speech. mussolini's body will be platformed one last time, hanging upside down in a gas station where people can freely spit on his corpse and disfigure it.
yes it is he.
i'm sure he was more than a grocer, but what he was expecting many.
it would suffice to mention "yep, you know, the smiling grocer with a gorgeous beard" to someone who's been to assalam even once and for sure we know who we're talking about.
i didn't go there that often because it's not near where we live, but it happened to me to find moroccan saffron or stuff like that.
even though i only got to know him superficially as a very occasional customer, it seemed obvious that he was a mainstay for his entire community.
even before his death, he's the kind of person you don't forget, just passing by once.
it's sad.
do you really think there was no dream behind his gesture? like, was it by chance that he walked into a mosque, and it might as well have been a church or a mall?
>when some don't understand, they reiterate their ignorance in the most pityful fortification you could ever witness.
hmm?
i knew it was a risky comment, but my point was just to comment on the cyclicity of hatred. it all stems from fear of the other, and it feeds into itself continually.
i don't support hurting people for their (or your own) beliefs.
just goes to show how an unexplained comment can be taken any way according to whatever people already want to believe other people will try to say, lol.
> the only position that makes sense is "we don't know it".
what is your position on unicorns?
taking a stand is stupid, how i'm going to take a stand.
and yet, it was not before the de-platforming and censorship that we saw things deteriorate. and it's not milo and spencer who organized the assault on capitol hill or are planning attacks right now.
when madmen were on 4chan, their voices were drowned in a tide. when they were banned, they were forced to end up somewhere else, together on 8chan. less opposition, more organization. when 8chan was closed and returned to 8kun, the effect was the same. there is a big difference between not giving these people a megaphone and pushing them aside altogether.
i believe that he had no political or ideological dream and that he did not want to put pressure on it.
he's just crazy. unfortunately.
definition of larrousse
no, these people were killed. someone walked into a place of worship and killed them. they weren’t a part of the “cyclicity of hatred” whatever that is.
what you’re saying isn’t deep or profound. it’s just stupid and doesn’t reflect reality.
ha, i already prefer your articulated side.
is there any reason to think that maybe there might be unicorns somewhere?
i imagine that for him, we do not know.
an absence of belief on a subject = / = take a stand. lmao
on the contrary, the account of his radicalization shows that his act was perfectly political and ideologically motivated.
he didn't just lose control and shoot random people, he consciously targeted muslims.
dude the killer is who i'm talking about. 
>what **you’re saying** isn’t deep or profound. it’s just stupid and doesn’t reflect reality.
that's because that's not what i'm saying, rather what you want me to be saying, so that you can get angry at it...
did you completely ignore this part in your in-depth analysis?
>i don't support hurting people for their (or your own) beliefs. 
to clariy i don't mean religous beliefs, just... things people *believe* to be true. like how you believe that i'm saying something i'm not.
yeah but when you explain everything in detail you leave no room for thought or discussion.
anyways, cheers :)
no more than the other. it seems that the only sensible position is “we don't know”.
in this specific case, it is the very definition of atheism ... another belief.
this is not what his psychological assessment and judgment says.
destabilized as he was, he could have chosen a church, a grocery store or any other place.
it's dangerous to put everything in the terrorist box, it reduces real terrorism. when it is assessed, it is taken really seriously, if it had been terrorism, they would clearly have laid charges in this regard.
it is rather (and it is not better) a mass killer, as underlined in the indictment and in the letter of the father of bissonnette ( / the-parents-of-bissonnette-recall-trudeau-a-lordre)
ok i’m obviously misunderstanding something because even with that explanation, what you’re saying doesn’t make sense. you said you were commenting on the cyclicity of hatred. what is that and what do the victims of this terrorist attack have to do with it?
yeah? from where i come from, your idea isn't explicit until dreadfully deployed to be intellectualised. you're drunk on low hanging fruit. i always have room for my thought, it is foolishness to behave as if you were in prevention from explicitation by overstating that your being showing itself would render the room incapable of repartie.
everyone dies. what happens next? many have experienced a "near-death experience". probably a psychological phenomenon, but it is a question that has probably existed since the human being conscious. that's a valid question, unlike your unicorn.
that's why i'm an atheist. i have no belief on the subject. we just don't know.
there may be unicorns that exist somewhere else in the universe. what do you know?
you are confused. atheism is "the absence or rejection of any belief in any divinity whatsoever."
"lack of belief".
you don't know what you're talking about. learn a little about the subject.
there was simply a lack of evidence for the legal definition, but the scientific definition fits very well.
it is definitely a terrorist act perpetrated by a lone wolf.
>what do the victims of this terrorist attack have to do with it?
nothing.
my og comment cycles after the word "thinks", so what i'm saying is basically "the killer thinks that his victims thought something..." and so on. 
i'm speaking about the kind of paranoia that motivates these actions, and how it is actually based in unfounded fear and assumptions about others' thoughts.
the cyclicity happens in peoples' head, not because of real actions back and forth necessarily. so no, the victims did nothing here. they (victims in general) rarely ever do.
i also purposefully ended it after a third cycle (rather than the second) to avoid seeming like i was tossing blame onto the victims, or onto muslims or religious people in general, but clearly that wasn't enough.
i don't know if i cleared it up well enough, hopefully at least you no longer feel like my intent was to attack the victims.
in any case, thank you for replying in good faith with a legitimate question, sincerely.
any chance you guys wont mind if we borrow this idea over in b.c.? we got idiots storming schools now and we need some creative ideas to deal with them
in british columbia they entered a few schools to terrorize the children.
cbc.ca: salmon arm schools locked and secured after anti-vaccine protesters enter on friday.
it is excellent this press cartoon
me, i could see it dice sniper with hypodermic rifles loaded with vaccines on the roofs of hospitals
lol should tell them that they will receive the vaccine if they go to the hospital :)
if the vaccine could be given in a gaseous state ... smoke vaccine!
i can’t speak french but i can read it to some extent, and i wholeheartedly agree
if only!
"libârté" lolz
no distinction between anti vaccine and anti passport? no?
/r/cringe
hot take:
where are antifa? where are the black bloc?
are always ready to fart and leave cities on fire when a policeman tightens the handcuffs a little too hard or a european black metal band comes to play here.
but of the world that actually terrorizes children in their schools or threatens patients and healthcare workers?
where are these warriors?
missing the point by a mile
rofl i've always known that the covid vaccine was a weapon
this doesn't really send the right message imo
this does not send the correct message in my opinion
quebec used to be so liberal. now wokeism has infected it
used this tactic, it always work.
idiots, idiots everywhere!
it must be the first time that these have seen the interior of a school.
garbage! it's rubbish. we don't do that to children.
wow ... to do that to children, you have to be cave not nearly! i look at them and i tell myself, tse, when people with intellectual disabilities are smarter than you ...
coppers
covidiots blocking hospitals: i sleep.
students protesting a tuition hike: real shit.
errr, there it is, it borders on terrorism ...
it's pretty rare, but i've seen patients ask for it when sick with covid ... it's sad how anti-vaccines don't understand how these work.
seriously, we really should start a conspiracy theory with the hospitals.
"spike protein" version but more intense?
ex *: hospitals being full of vaccinated people close to nuclear devices, spike proteins are 1000 times stronger and can make you sick if you approach within 500 m of a hospital and you do not have covid-19 again! *
on the other hand it would take us a lunar care guru to make us an fb video on it. is there one in / r / quebec?
damn, you have plans for the hasidic jewish community in montreal.
this doesn't really send the right message in my opinion
time to get vaccinated is woke? it makes less and less sense for you.
hey, don't you have to be mongolian enough to say it's "woke" to be vaccinated? go take your medicine for sheep asti horse.
being libéral was also woke.
quebec used to be progressive and keeps being progressive. if it was just up to quebec, it would likely be similar to most scandinavian countries.
roc sometimes can't understand it but turns around 10-20 years later.
aren’t the guy who talked about some girl’s legs with the cup picture lmao ?? get out of here creep
i hope the teachers took some time with the students to explain to them who these people are, how they fell into the anti-tax trap and what to do to avoid getting caught up in a gang like that.
if so, students will be better off to deal with misinformation later, whether at home with questionable parents or in society at large.
there is good that can come out of this experience if it is handled well.
it proves that they are totally in despair at this point and that should really worry us for the rest of things ....
hrm, it crosses the line of being cave and becomes criminal at this point. fuck me in jail.
i prefer the term "pigs"
i imagine that when you have the feeling of drowning while breathing air, you have to put your ideas back in place ...
even if you explain to them 74 times that vaccination does not prevent infection but it reduces complications from covid.
> on the other hand it would take us a guru
i heard that anne casabonne is looking for a job ...
we just have to say that to jo lindigo believe in all this moron! lol
i'm not talking about a gas chamber, but a smoke bomb.
i don't think that really sends the right message.
i'm from buenos aires and i say *kill 'em all!*
yes, soon they will want to become martyrs.
solid. as some of these idiots filmed themselves, i hope the police will do their job until the end.
it is true that explained like that, it calms.
a doctor who worked in intensive care showed me a video she took of a patient to illustrate the impact of covid towards the end of the patient's life. the person is breathing and it's like hearing bubbles, like the person is gargling ... it sounds really horrible as a way of dying.
it looked like this: [ marge(
ah caliss not her too .... my childhood!
> jo lindigo
are you talking about that [ 4.3(
and he's going to vote tomorrow, right?
you mustn't tell him directly, especially if you're not from his clique, he won't believe you.
you have to put the info on the net and find a way that he can find it. then he will determine in his logic that it is legit information since it is on the internet ((no joke, it is his reasoning, he has already mentioned it several times in his videos)) and he will fight tooth and nail to defend this truth.
then fucking laugh your life.
wow great photos!
it makes me want to not come back to work tomorrow.
i would like to join the others and congratulate you on the great photos. thank you for sharing this beautiful part of the country.
the hike on the grand tour at bic is probably the most pleasant i have done in quebec so far
what a talent, u / kentochmervel!
ayoye, wow!
i will crown my camping camp tomorrow for 5 days; i can't wait fucking.
beautiful compositions!
the first one looks like another planet
unbelievable! i love
ah, she is the fun of the bonaventure island. is there a seagull shit all over her beach
looks like kirk misses out on his chest fighting with a papier maché alien! udder a backstory .. pom pom pom .. popom pom pom ..
the fourth photo is of the american lake, isn't it?
i went there in june! so a beautiful corner!
in any case ... i don't know these where you buy your lighter, but these clearly not at the bed late!
very pretty!
great photo of the cape a l'orignial, the bic is my favorite park!
unbelievable!
very beautiful pictures!
the photos are great; i really like the integration of details (eg boat and rope with the percé rock), it makes the photos unique.
i take a similar trip in early september then damn i can't wait.
superb the 3 gaspé snakes on the boat who are bending over to drink water on the tenth photo.
great! which lens (s) did you use?
are the pisenlits that big?
i'm going from pierced to bic tomorrow. i went forillon, parc de la gaspésie and bic last year. what do you recommend that i missed?
i'm in forillon right now and i sprained my ankle on a trampoline😕
😉
thank you ☺️
thank you!
thank you
😉
thank you!!
🤣
only an iphone 11 pro and some touch-ups with the photos app. nothing more!
the magic of the ultra wide angle ✌️ (also used on the first photo and the rocher percé)
the settings is * seen from below *.
we punctuated our trip with stops at micro-breweries. frontibus in gaspé, the fabrique in matane, the caveau in trois-pistoles. a small detour via the chic-chocs is really worth a look. the sea shack at ste anne des monts is a good place to relax, drink and eat in good company too.
oh no 😢
you can also relax on the beach to still enjoy a little!
even for the eighth? impressive!
i was sure it was film! good game
i suspected it. : d
great photos by the way
i also like the ketch in ste-flavie.
pit caribou have a superb terrace where you are allowed to bring your lunch if you have a beer, it makes a great picnic spot from percé heading south!
portrait mode for this one!
thank you very much 😁
$ 58? for what we can see in the photo? 😳
calvary...
i see you paid saved $ 0.01 by paying cash. / r / personalfinance would be proud of you!
exactly. cheese a + the rest b-
i was just going there yesterday, until i saw the price of a small poutine: around $ 10.60
coming from someone who lives on the set, i wondered why you found it expensive.
i remember that not everyone pays 2x the price for everything.
no tomato ?! what is this heresy ?!
it's the burgers that cost you an arm and a leg. the pouts looks sexyyy
it's a good thing you took a coke zero to make sure you control the calories for the day 😂 (what a joke i love coke zero)
not bad if we would do the tournament again but including the prices for a regular poutine, it would be a game-changer.
is an average poutine at $ 13 expensive in quebec. not bad the price everywhere in montreal isn't it?
it's on extras that restaurants make money. your gone all-in!
if that's their average poutine, i can't imagine the big one! serious for the poutines the price seems pretty good to me.
60$??
i almost went saturday night for supper. i was going to heat 45 minutes to go to thetford to taste the famous poutine. on their site, while looking for a branch, i saw that the poutine i wanted cost me 19 dollars, i ate leftovers that i had in the end.
it's the saddest burger in history.
i live next to a victoria cheese dairy and i like it a bit too much! 🤣😅 oops.
stop fooling around and eat at pataterie in hochealga at the corner of ontario and bourbonnière. their poutine is the best i have eaten in years.
their potatoes are sua coche en esti. their sauce is a real good thick brown sauce and their cheese makes squick squick until the last bite.
how can you get to a victoria cheese dairy without a car from montreal?
bang, $ 60 for that?
do they suck you under the table at that price?
and the lil 'coleslaw… was it good?
here it is pepsi esti
disqualification following the prize. i can't tell my friends in other countries that it's the best poutine.
victoria poutine. you're out!
$ 58! i would like to change my vote!
yuck for all the disposable dishes. especially when you eat there. it seems to me that we have gone elsewhere.
it's not the most appetizing burger at first glance. the official photo is bin cute.
i understand that it went up quickly if there were so many extras.
and, small discovery, their online ordering system charges more. i just tried an order at the same restaurant with all that, to pick up tuesday noon (not found the carnivore for the poutine) and it goes up to $ 62.50. the extra that is missing, if it follows the prices, the invoice arrives in the 70 $ after taxes.
i'll stick to my little poutine at $ 8 taxes included in the poutine d'or in st-georges, which will have a victoria nearby in a short time. people in my area who have never been will find that it costs more, i hope the quality is there.
(and the only piece of text on the doily speaks of low price ... ok)
i normally just buy the cheese and the rest i make myself. a better value for money in this time
i don't understand why the sub voted for this horrible place. but the basic choices were horrible. there were only chain restaurants.
paulo and suzanne wtf are youuuuuu estie
paul patate at psc all the way. i think they have the best poutine
$ 58 for two it's expensive
can we do like the states and say there was fraud and that the survey is rigged and we want to establish the winner of our choice?!? lol
saint-jérome eh?
dear in being
i can live two weeks with this money
that's what i said in the first poll! it's good, but it's really not the "best" in my opinion ... the fries are correct, the sauce is correct, the cheese is great. and to have a big poutine delivered with pieces of sausage on doordash it cost me something like $ 34-35. the poutine from the pâquet pizzeria beats it solid, in my opinion, and it costs less than half the price for the same portions.
i want tlm to earn $ 25 / hr in catering but… how can a business survive selling a $ 30 hamburger liqueur ???
i know it's not cheap, but it looks like it has quite a bit of cheese anyway.
it was the pit pop that had to be taken. beginner's mistake.
barnak! $ 60 just for that, those well too. even if your poutine has a golden coulis lol.
2 big mac trios at mcdonald's with poutines (large format to match the size of poutine he has there) and soft drinks in a fountain that will easily go up to close to $ 40-45 taxes included. if you compare the potato shack on the side of the road, it sure sounds expensive, but for a chain it doesn't seem over the top to me. not to mention that the portions of cheese curds are really generous.
your hamburgers are expensive for nothing (8-9 $ / hamburger) ... the price of poutine seems correct
i agree 110% i did not have so much triumph on the sauce and fries ... and fucking 58 pediatrician
looks amazing. bit pricey though wtf..
honestly, i find that there is just the right cheese in vvic's poutine
i prefer a no name poutine in a local canteen with real brown canteen fries
in addition most of the time the price is fair
i come to the same observation. yes it is extremely expensive to compare others and good cheese, many others make or have it.
for what has in the photo; i think i have already paid less at the bell center lol
seriously, there's more disgusting than hotdog sausage in poutine.
really * gagging in disgust *
they don't sound like poor hamburger. but $ 60 for that calvere. it's better to be good.
c'est le special pigeon ca? what the fuck
what is the one in the middle on the left?
edit: it's good, it's fast / young
in 2091, the republic will only express itself through gutural moans.
the hand apple. i think i wouldn't even understand if someone told me that.
i would like to know where it comes from because only the first in my region are: handles and wrist, ditto for pastes and legs, etc.
is that the official phonetics? after that it does not take into account the regions i think because in my family the fast / palm / strand example does not work at all!
what's the one at the bottom right?
this is also one of the reasons why the french accent is easy to pick up and difficult to get rid of: there are a lot less sounds.
i don't know if it's only in alsace but at home we make the difference
meanwhile at lac st-jean:
wéyons ya dont bin du vin (wind) today
i have never heard palm and apple pronounced the same way in france
these are not justified observations, except perhaps for the parisians of the audio-visual sector.
[i had already made a granny on the subject] (
maybe the smurfs were ultimately a prophetic work and that's where the french is heading, full, full of namesakes and it will be necessary to use the context to understand anything!
white bread and brown bread is pronounced the same way for a frenchman… i worked in a lunch restaurant and i had to make them repeat 2-3 times, because they pronounce “bran” (as in the word large) instead of brown
bɛt99?
pasta is more '\ [poooooaaaät \] here.
but hey, we will have to invent a pure wool phonetic alphabet to manage regional but above all reasonable accommodations ....
by the way, can someone explain the 'cutlery' -> 'utensils' stroke to me?
middle right, could someone enlighten me please?
this is the best post in the war so far. in my opinion, it is a fatal blow.
kin toe!
quebec: [fos], [fɔs]
france: [fos]
it does not add anything more to the board, but it is fun to compare the versions of the song "when i will have the wind in my skull" (text by boris vian).
in reggiani's "original" version, we clearly hear a play on words. in more recent versions, no.
edit: in real life, i don't know what's going on here. come to think of it, i'm pretty sure i'm saying / yn fos sɛptik /
after all that depends on the regions, for example in the south we can clearly distinguish between strand / brown, on the other hand we do not differentiate between ate / ate where they do in the north. this scheme would only be valid for a weird kind of french mixing a whole bunch of regional accents.
i am french and unfortunately this painting is confusing. the speakers of the langue d'oïl regions do indeed have different sounds for each of the examples in the table. maybe not for strand and brown, but hey it's not easy ...
for speakers of the south, occitan, basques, corsican regions, etc ... the distinction exists between brown and strand, otherwise certain other nuances do not really need to be since in the south french has only been spoken since relatively recently. the people of the south are also widely laughed at by those of the north for the absence of certain nuances in their language.
i do not know in which weird districts of france you fell, but for my part, i pronounce everything as in the left column each time: p
what annoys me a little is the fact that some french people pronounce the conditional present 1st person (rais) as the future simple 1st person (rai). i can say that it caused several arguments between my quebec father and my french mother-in-law because of misunderstandings lol. and my mother-in-law insisted that the correct way to say "i would like" was hers (i would like) - \ _- '
years of meme ---> 
** nobody ** pronounces fast as young or palm as apple.
it is certain that metropolitan french is more advanced in the loss of tone, diphthongs and affrications that still exist in quebec french. but that does not mean that the phenomenon does not exist in quebec and that it is not led to follow the same path as metropolitan french.
damn i wondered what the plate / baby relationship was
perfection
it's the parisian / southern accent only, isn't it?
very well done ! on the other hand, it looks rather silly [ba ^ ɛ t], but the rest is fine
here, it is even richer if we add the diphthongs:
pasta> pɑt> pɑ ^ (o) t
garage > gaʁaʒ > gaʁa^(o)ʒ
it is surely not correct, but i love this trend of france bashing ...
what's the green thing at the bottom right? anyway, i don't pronounce a diphthong in beast. otherwise, left group: i make a difference; right-wing group: not really.
this table is false
interesting. [i'm sorry, i don't speak french natively]
i knew that quebecers had a different accent but i never knew exactly what these differences were
is it also true that words, like "cold", are pronounced / fʁwɛ (t) /?
hell yeah phonetic alphabet
my linguistics lessons have never been so useful.
i grew up in france, i can hardly hear the difference between these sounds. but it is considered a classic evolution in linguistics, languages tend to simplify when it is not useful to keep the complication.
there are indeed linguistic differences between french in france and french in quebec. hilarious.
is that oc from you, op? good job anyway!
what about "beautician" then? estsétsissiâène?
personally there is only a mixture of dough and paw, but out of laziness, and i don't like the sound of dough too
grammar / 20
2 hexagonal vowel.
mill and tight are inseparable.
for brin / brun i would say that the french pronunciation is even closer to [bʁɑ̃] (bran)
it's very educational!
in 2124: -1 vowel!
thank you ! i couldn't see the connection with a plate and a baby. i was really confused.
fasting (action of fasting) and young (in the sense of not old)
sometimes some also use the same sound for "i".
it's utensils
[deleted]
tap
tamenute.
menute
*tendon*
srapalon
yay the return of winnie!
when will the quebec r / holup r / tapeula
[deleted]
the how section is the entire vocabulary of primary school supervisors
don't rush.
often followed by a feeling of "nerves".
menute papillon
womenute
tinpeu
what radio-canada should have done before announcing the victory of the mayoress of quebec.
atahpeu lo
taminut
someone should make a book with all these memes.
i missed winnie bcp!
#look
wo menute
there's also: let's see coliss tapeu!
on scalme
looked
observe 
checkorgard
the fire is not caught
it won't be long!
wait a moment calisse
ergare eat and ecry bad lol
attapeu
aretapeu
tatipeusti
* wô * menute
achilles
why does r / quebec travel so much on winnie?
say i know, tentipeau? oh, wait a minute?
i wasn't sure if swarming was a "real word" i googled it pi yes.
camtoecoliss
wow menute papillon
my grandmother says it like that!
talon
the sub is full of lurkers who like very simple pictures. this is why we have duck clouds and tank plates in the top posts but interesting articles and discussions are just buried.
just because it's not original here doesn't mean it's bad. you don't have to adapt everything to pq sauce.
there have been 2 same winnie in a week when you go to new, i think the world is really crazy about winnie. it would be fun to have a qc version of the grandma, though.
did you also say "take care" to say attention?
is it areta franklin?
wow i wish i could be intellectually superior to others like you.
i didn't want to go deep the same haha
i meant we could have our own template a little more in our image (even if it's simple bin)
but when i look at it today, i'm not proud of my homeland
it's been meme on reddit, ass sitting on the status quo
i didn't say it was bad, but as long as we copy the americans, we could put a little bit of effort into it.
yep!
i'm confused, why are you putting a picture of a european village?
according to 
there are 1131 municipalities (all designations) in quebec and 493 municipalities have less than 1000 inhabitants; or 43.6%
how does it compare to other canadian provinces, american states or european states?
probably the result of the efforts of the ministry of colonization during the 1927 crisis ...
i spent part of my youth in this kind of village. let me say it, several of these villages are devitalized and have no reason to exist. the government should probably buy the houses of those who stay there to close the place and save on road maintenance.
several people are literally trapped in their village because they are unable to sell at a reasonable price, due to a lack of buyers ... but the government is forced to invest in improving infrastructure! they put 12 million for the water system and loathing a small village where i grew up, for 375 inhabitants ....
unfortunately, closing villages has already been tried in the past in the gaspé, but it had an outcry (googling "operation dignity", it did not fly high). so, we are trying to maintain open-air homes for the elderly ...
imagine before the 2001 municipal mergers
montreal east has 4000 inhabitants. is it a big village or a small town?
you want to laugh? go to google maps and find the "town center" of st-hilaire-de-dorset.
another fun fact, quebec has a road network more than 50% larger than that of ontario, even if its population is almost half smaller.
[source] (
at the same time, 4.7m out of 8.4m quebecers live in one of the 20 largest cities in quebec.
at 4.1m inhabitant in 2016, nearly 1 in 2 quebecers live in greater montreal. so i would say that quebec is montreal: p
walmart is an hour away
i moved to the countryside last july. i have never loved our territory so much. it's so much fun to just drive around in these villages and see century-old houses and some even bicentennials! as long as to me, there is nothing more bucolic than a row.
the long village continues!
they have all 56k internet, nope for me 🤣
it's cool, i would like to see how this compares to other provinces
someday it's all going to be covered in concrete.
quebec was a land grab set up by the catholic church
[
[tin!] (
sainte-rose-du-nord: [439 inhabitants] (
just out of curiosity, how do you know it's a european village?
it looks too well maintained to be a small quebec village. if house siding has been washed for less than 40 years, it is not in quebec.
paske that we have not yet found how the romanticism of the region
pi paske op must reaffirm a linear ethos from the french heritage
#nostalgia
hahaha xd
you also have 9 municipalities at 0.
oin, not really useful as a stats without it. i don't even think that quebec is particularly a place of small villages, probably even the opposite.
having visited france and the rural us a little, these countries seem to me to be much more "small villages".
france (which is an exception in europe) has 36,000 municipalities for 60 million inhabitants. 60% of them have less than 1000 inhabitants and 50% less than 500 inhabitants.
it comes from [statistics from the association of mayors of france] ( i don't know when it dates or how these figures were obtained (but the source is an institution, so it's largely credible).
insee publishes statistics (based on census figures) which are available via [the government's open data site] ( but the sites since the french government is always so damn good, i have not managed to find a summary that would give figures that interest us.
you know, 15 years ago i would have agreed, but i think that we are witnessing an urban exodus supported by teleworking, and that some of these villages will experience a revival in a few years. for many people, an internet connection is all they need to work. it can be an interesting life plan to go to university in quebec or montreal, and then go live and work where a house and a large garden don't cost half a million.
> unfortunately, closing villages has already been tried in the past in gaspésie, but it had an outcry (googling "operation dignity", that did not want high). so, we are trying to maintain open-air homes for the elderly ...
considering what happened to forillon, i understand the gaspésiens well.
is there a crisis in access to housing and family property? do you want to reduce the offer?
on the contrary, it is necessary to ruralize and densify.
there was no school in your village, it seems. your text is incomprehensible.
it was a lot better than after. much lower taxes, less rcn policing and bureaucracy, more freedom for people in small villages to do things their own way, and then an education system that works.
fortunately there is a song from the roommates that just serves to clarify the issue:
in my little town we were just four thousand
and the main street in was called st-cyrille
a small town.
[deleted]
once there, it's not really a city center. i do not believe that the term downtown can really apply for small villages.
it spreads the jam a lot.
greater montreal tends to want to quietly eat all of quebec so in a short time will say that joliette and sorel are part of greater montreal
ah correct you can have a kind of satellite deal that goes as fast as adsl from 2005 to 75 $ per month but not exceed your 30gb of download otherwise you will be charged $ 15 for every 100mb that you have outmoded
interesting, thanks to your link i just discovered that there was an "[association of the most beautiful villages of quebec] ( i know where i'm going to go next summer :)
but this is not the village of the photo of op?
there you speak!
lots of details:
\ -orange roofs, we don't have that in quebec
\ -i don't see any big church, all the villages in quebec have their church which stands out from the other buildings
\ -the unstructured land division. in quebec, it is a little more rectilinear (system of seigneuries)
\ -the road is much too narrow, the roads are wider in quebec and north america
\ -i don't see any conifers
\ -there is a lack of rivers
no horse-land pool in sight. impossible that it is in quebec!
not op, but i would say the red roofs (clay tiles). there is not that here
reverse image search?
you go to google images.
in the search bar, there is a camera icon, you click on it, it will open a small window.
above the window, you can either upload an image from your computer, or copy the link of an image, and google will search all the pages where the photo is used.
on the other hand, i am not sure that it is an image of a european village. there are a couple of sites that seem to say it's a photo of a village in mississippi. others who seem to say it's a painting. but good tracking to know the photo it is which village.
architecture doesn't lie!
i live in one of them
to make an analogy: i believe that if we counted the number of copies sold per book, we would also find that the vast majority sold little. it's a long tail distribution.
france has an average density of 107.2 inhabitants per square kilometer, compared to 5.3 for quebec. in principle, that would announce the opposite.
having traveled in france too, i would tell you that it is faster to arrive in the countryside in france (so we can see the small villages more easily by walking a little), but that the countryside of quebec is much larger and especially incredibly less densely populated.
there are so many villages in quebec that it is in fact an administrative formality, because in fact it is just 3-4 country roads surrounded by fields with a farm every kilometer.
thank you.
we will let time do things. a lot of people think like you. but i believe that 100% teleworking will not be available / popular as soon as we think.
it still requires the maintenance of infrastructure that stretch for miles for a handful of people. i don't know how sustainable it is.
reddit comments are as it is. what to avoid is facebook comments below the live video. it makes you want to explain life to people, with a shovel in the face.
legault again said that there were more young people in hospitals. in proportion to the elders, compared to before, yes. but there are no more than before. it has already been denied by some media.
as the measures work, he will announce a deconfinement. to be sure, he will immediately plan a press conference in 2 weeks to announce a reconfinement.
i shouldn't listen to it so much..i'm just getting mad..but i can't help it!
it's correct, it's 3:00 p.m. in springfield
i can't wait for them to announce a third stimulus check ... i'm starting to be poor in tbk.
nice photoshop
you could, legault, not look good, good
edit: i didn't think i needed to put a / s /, but it looks like it does ...
what is it that said this time?
upvote for the trouble ... :)
i leave that here ... arruda said that, like "i bring you knowledge"
"but the plane is also a faster mode of transportation."
the reddits comments are becoming more and more like facebook ...
so ... i uninstalled facebook two months ago. my level of aggression has dropped sharply.
metal or plastic belly?
facebook comments are so toxic.
completely agree, seeing old madam nickname arruda "tie shark" makes me want to give the conspirator a good reason for bawling.
oh man facebook is even worse!
why do reddit comments tend to be less worse than facebook comments?
from the start of the mess that he's been trying to scare people, it works so well that he can now say anything, the majority of the population believe him. it is strong fear.
did we listen to the same conference?
he just said he should have said "young-adult", because he's talking about people under 60 years old.
what is still weird to say "young-adult", but still that it has to clarify that it speaks about people of less than 60 years.
denied by some media? who are you talking about?
i just saw an article from jdm.
[
who do you decide to believe, a freelance writer from jdm or dr. laurie robichaud, emergency physician at the jewish general hospital in montreal.
the world whines when things deconfine too soon. the world whines when things go wrong too late. there are even people who complain in advance that they will never deconfin.
can you just take a deep breath?
hahaha, it's true that it looks a bit like this;)
it is a difficult decision ...
in my opinion they go on forever rather than communicating things clearly and briefly.
like when your pm takes 1 hour discussing an issue that could well have been an email.
in any case, i'm waiting to read the next day's newspaper to tell myself that nothing has changed in montreal.
it depends on springfield
print tickets, ubi, no time to mess around.
simple. used political words. love it.
edit: same for me it was / s as fuck.
never take any luck here lol
[loi de poe] (
i found the facebook stray!
cases are surprisingly stable in montreal and laval...but we cannot relax any restrictions until at least may 4th. fml.
(also az vaccine for the 45+ crowd.)
edit: it's may 3rd
"... vaccination is our passport to get out of the pandemic ..."
"... you have to understand that ... * rambling incoherent * (opens three parentheses in the same explanation)"
squealing me arruda at the garbage.
like, share and tag 5 friends on this comment. 🤣
what i observe on reddit is that the first comments set the tone for the discussions. protesters are particularly quick to comment on and upvote each other.
also, i would like at all costs that quebec could avoid suffering major attacks from [astroturfing] ( or other manipulation of social media for political gains.
reddit and facebook are not a club meeting or a church stoop. it is a gymnasium where those with the megaphone can impose themselves on millions of people. it is not an environment conducive to exchanges that will change our society; it is fertile ground for populism.
i am okay!
[deleted]
such !
in november, i deleted my facebook account altogether and uninstalled reddit from on my phone. instagram too, but i'm an old generation y who doesn't catch the allure of instagram too much (it's to check photos of full surgery bimbos, right?). even linkedin, because the addict in me was looking for his fix somewhere, even if linkedin is boring for a long time.
it changed my life. i can always open my laptop to go to the reddit browser, but it's a conscious decision. i do it 30-45 minutes, that's it ..
but mindless scrolling at any time is over. my kids don't see me with my face taped into a phone 24/7. i'm not constantly getting angry because a clown insulted me on reddit or some distant acquaintance posted a silly osti on facebook.
best decision ever.
best move i've ever made in earnest. less aggressiveness but also less wasted time. now i open it, no notification? i close it. that's it.
well ok, i get lost in scrolling reddit more often but on reddit every once in a while i learn and discover new things. i can't say it happened to me often on facebook
1 and a half years for me. if i would have a top 5 of my best moves, i would clearly be the first.
concrete
made of plastic with the small metal border to scrape the ice.
it's to shovel some shovel, so [in gold] ( of course!
with their hard head, it takes on metal. put some lead in their tit skull. but hey it is not washed as well as the plastic one, because the pig's heads are not clean clean ...
fuck facebook
facebook has become scary, i don't understand what it does to the world. i would never have believed ten years ago if my friend had told me that the taint could take so quickly on a gardening forum. i almost unsubscribed from vegetable garden québec last summer to protect mental health.
in my opinion the design of reddit is much less designed to keep the attention of the average person, it takes a little work to find the content that interests us. it affects the kind of people who participate in the discussions, not just in a positive way but i much prefer it myself. i like much better to exchange with narrow-minded ideologues than with people who expose their prejudices beside their face without any thought.
[deleted]
my grandmother called them crossignoles ...
my mother-in-law calls them negrillons, but i can't imagine myself with her since i am new to the family and to the region ... but how to trust people who say "a donut" smh
i'm the only one to find his best not cooked
i think it would be time to change the name of the dessert, it is offensive to the nuns
it stinks of holiness
my grandmother grew up in hull, qc/cornwall on, before moving to the states.  she made these very often, and we always called them "roly polies" as kids.  it wasn't until months before she passed away that she told us the translation of des pets de sœur was "nun's farts." is this the translation, or was she just fucking with us for a laugh? she lost a lot of her fluency in french over her later years due to alzheimer's.
we chat to chat there ... did you give it all to me?
ah it's funny, because i knew the [nuns farts] ( but not the sisters farts.
my mother-in-law is actually good. not just during the holidays.
the little photo looked like one of those paintings of old graduates ...
i would ask you for a recipe but i already have too many desserts at home ...
back home we called them nun's farts. am you the only one?
they are magnificent
they look so good !! i would like your recipe please! every time i make it they are too dry. merciii !!
awwww yiissssss ♡
fuck yes. my favorite dessert!
look, if you have a few too many, let me know! i will help you finish them with great pleasure.
oh my god! it reminds me so much of my grandma! it was only she who made it in the family! you make me want to do it!
it's funny, i just wanted to do it during the holidays!
funny, i love sisters' farts but i never decided one morning that i was going to make dough specifically for cooking. it's always when i have some dough left after making pies or pâtés that i make it! you give me the taste!
r/foodporn
i smell my sister's farts during the holidays
wow. it reminds me of my mother ...
recipe, please?
we call them pigtails
crisse that it's good
should be under r/mildy infuriating
these are navels. fight me.
a sister's pet-sauce.
sculptures by alcide barbeau
do they say “a” fry too? it seems to me that there is a part of the country where they masculinize the fries ...
disgusting ...
no. not bad all that is uncooked pastries i would eat endlessly haha.
flour may contain salmonella; this is why eating raw dough can make you sick ...
that's the point.
your grandma was saying the truth! in fact, that’s what i’m saying in the title: “sister’s fart” (sœur=sister, pet=fart) and the way the phrase’s conjugated, it’s clear i’m talking about a religious person, not a sibling.
it is indeed the litteral translation of it
nuns is a synonym for sisters.
like what all farts are not the same :)
a nun is a sister.
it comes back to the same ..
1- tunderflake pie dough (the recipe on the box)
2- melted butter
3- brown sugar
roll out a 1/3 ”thick dough
put melted butter on it
add brown sugar (1/4 ”thick)
to roll
cut into slices
put on a baking sheet with parchment paper
four 350f 15-20 minutes.
if \ * ever \ * you find them still too dry .... try to cook them in a base of water and brown sugar (or syrup) like an unemployed pudding.
we made 6 pies (ok, pâtés with meat ...) and 6 pies (4 sugars, 2 lemons). sister farts are what's left.
- tunderflake pie crust (the recipe on the box)
- melted butter
- brown sugar
roll out a 1/3 ”thick dough
put melted butter on it
add brown sugar (1/4 ”thick)
to roll
cut into slices
put on a baking sheet with parchment paper
four 350f 15-20 minutes.
naviltines
yeah posterior navels
a * shart * of a sister
no, it's dog poop. put on the fart!
is it dark, can't wait for spring?
me: can't wait for spring / can't wait for fall. i hate it when it's very hot, but at least in winter i can get warm unlike in summer, i can't go out naked or tear my skin off.
september october may and nothing else.
[deleted]
honestly, it's mostly that the seasons are way too long. i really like summer until august when i start to have my helmet full of heat waves and i like winter until february when i can't wait to take off my coat.
in an ideal world, each season would last one month and we would have three seasonal cycles per year!
chialage is coming .. ?  its chialage 365 day per année!
real people never look forward to summer. summer criss of mard.
fall is the best season, fight me!
[trame sonore.](
the worst is when the first snowflake falls in the fall. you immediately hear the “pu capab la maudite marde blanche”
i love all the seasons when it's their seasons.
summer when it's summer!
winter when there is 2 feet of snow.
autumn when it's colors everywhere.
spring when the snow melts worse is +5 for the first time in 4 months.
not when it is the osti of gray rain from the end of october until the first snow in december.
my favorite time of year is coming up. i said it in another thread, but the cooler weather, the colors: i put myself in halloween mode, pumpkin candle and soups.
finally a meme that reaches all quebecers.
#never happy
i like all the seasons, i just don't like the “between seasons”. it is hot, but not enough for swimming. you're hot with a little wool, but you're a little cold if you take it off. you are fine in the sun, but it is cold in the shade ...
to sweat the crack> to have fresh
fall ftw
i feel attacked
i'm bored of the heatwave
[i'll leave you with that roommate here.] ( happy listening.
edit: damn, there's already someone who did.
the perfect temperature is when you can walk around in a hoodie: d
the duality of a quebecer
i wear well all seasons except the 2-3 months of freezing winter.
i have already received an email to renew my snow removal contract ...
but not having to shovel my entire driveway and then the meter of compacted and icy snow left by the plow makes winter a lot easier. with the extra work of the house, no need to go out in the morning.
"knotted as in the ass of a bear!" "
does anyone else ever know how to dress these days? i often have the wrong length of clothing.
i love summer. it's my favorite season. but, i've never looked forward to fall so much as this year. the humidity was unbearable.
of course i'm gonna whine this winter and say i can't wait for summer
objectively the 2 seasons (winter and summer) tend to be intense in quebec. so i can understand that we hate both.
we should stay on daylight saving time all year round.
well no just for once we are well outside !! long live fall!
quebecois intellectual: tsé is spring too!
me: the nypd poster should have been changed :(
pussy whining! time to wake up the quwbwcois tabarnak we will scan you like sheep in not long aweille your 3rd dose and your 4th bèèè bèèè 🐑🐑🐑🐑
asti is going to be dark at half past three remind me not that 😭
yep. we should change the time every month so that the sun always sets at 8 p.m.
this is racist
exact like you!
the hot summer heat, i just love them during my vacation when i'm in the pool / at the lake: d
in winter, i love extreme cold. i dress like the yeti and will take long walks (bonus points if it snows!)
we have beautiful seasons here i find
precision, you can go out naked, you're just not a game: p
well… you can but it comes with consequences.
t'as mon support.
june was not bad this year, and july too.
may is the worst month of the year for allergies!
i support september and october, i am ready to trade may for april.
everyone naked!
ah hold me it's the other way around. 30 degrees = sunscreen, sunglasses, 1l of water in my bag then i'm okay to go for a walk. but -30 = i stay with us then i am depressed
first time i hear that the summer is too long in quebec.
whining is the national sport of quebequois
fr anglais 100 eh?
i am in your team
we had a great summer what you're talking about.
just when you still have leaves, enough sun, enough heat to have a jacket without having to take it off at 1pm and no rain. otherwise, it's a beta winter.
the reply i was looking for.
sick! i really like these photos!
there are others on r / infraredporn
details:
sony a7 modified to full spectrum
tamron 28-200 to 200mm
720nm infrared filter
1/640s
f7.1
iso400
my instagram:
there are such successful paintings, they look like photos, and there are such incredible photos, they look like paintings!
it's age of empire 4
it's hot hien! when you think about it our reality is so weird.
it reminds me of the blue and gold or gray dress and whatnot .. or the animals that go in other light spectrum than ours ..
it's such an incredible feeling to see a setting that you know well in a light that you cannot see (naturally). gorgeous!
but it is beautiful !!! 👀
looks like an anime background landscape!
where from and looking which way?
nice!🙂
i have the impression that the maples are on the eve of attacking us.
i never knew about this subreddit! thank you for the information!
i'm already on insta for your astrophotography shots! good stock 👌
haha i was going to say it looked like an age of empires 2 screenshot
from mont royal  (the smaller northern lookout) towards like... north? 
i don't really know where everything is yet in montreal
thanks.
okay so after a while looking through google maps, i figured out that the big church on the left is called "polish church" on google maps (they don't have the name?) and the one on the right is église saint-édouard
the so-called "polish" church is st. michael the archangel and it was originally irish. page in [mémoire des montréalais] (
aristide beaugrand-champagne was inspired by the byzantine style to design it and the only other of this inspiration in quebec is also from him, but ... [in amos] ( / cath% c3% a9drale_sainte-th% c3% a9r% c3% a8se-d'avila_d'amos)!
roé is me
always knew i spoke good french.
it was associated with royalty in france so when the revolution came to them they got rid of this parlance.
this is what new france retained after the conquest. it helps to understand the origin of our distinct accent.
for the aristocrats, pronouncing the "r" was perceived as vulgar at this time. we often reduced the pronunciation of "r" to a kind of "y / w".
ex: i'm afraid = i can
it's the same in ch'ti spoken in the north of france - it's normal to hear pronunciations like "soèr" there, if i'm not mistaken.
i think it's because québécois and ch'ti - or more specifically picard - both reflect an old form of french, while parisian french which has become the norm has changed its vowels.
can we take a collective moment to imagine the king louis 14 talking like a good queb de beauce? because the mental image creaked me to the ground with laughter
there is no really right way to pronounce words.
did they also say "coffee" instead of "coffee?"
not badly sure that the people spoke with quite distinct accents, depending on the region, and it is the education of the priests during the great darkness which to standardize the pronunciation of the language. they really didn't like joual or fr anglais.
i like the "feure" at the bottom of the page.
ca va feure lo.
when we hear boomer acadians, it is all that obvious, it seems that this accent has been preserved almost intact in their part of the country.
i vote for the reintroduction of the long s.
“bonsoair” just reminds me of the diner de cons scene where mr. pignon pretends to be a belgian producer.
well yes, and if you read victor hugo, you will find lots of other things where certain regions of france spoke like us - breakfast / lunch / dinner instead of breakfast / lunch / dinner, or the fact of doubling the pronouns and formulate the questions with 'you', like "is he going to your place tonight?"
what is the document to which the image belongs?
when my full independence friend learned of his he became you proud lol
this is what i keep saying. our french is the real one. the original.
when will medieval films with the true accent of royalty?
anyone who knows a little about the history of the french language would know that.
peasants still talk like that in france
ej can you have the link i would like bin that or even its in my image box
do you remember when me jtai with me and then toe with you?
big if true
i go back to monke, or to moé?
i like the ę which is used for silent e's, it should come back, honestly, it would be less confusing to write and read.
i always say
souère (evening)
aouere (to have)
yeah (see)
muddy (box)
most,
when i say “you / me”, it's almost two pis mwo.
did you know that we also used carts at that time? ..
in fact we were colonized with the good french. so the quebecois speaks "almost" the authentic french of yesteryear. we agree that we have distorted it with english. short. we are anglicized settlers
so thats why they changed my irish family names back then......  got it.
la fraounce, though
té le roé de la patate, tipère keuven
moe si
i would rephrase with: the nobility had their heads cut off. so even those who spoke like the king began to speak with the accent of the poor classes, of the street, in order to protect their necks. in france it is therefore the spoken word of the parisian street that has spread everywhere and has become the norm.
honestly, that’s a good thing.
the accent of new france was considered at the time to be "neutral", much less pronounced than the parisian accent or all the other regional dialects of france.
from what i understand from history lessons and other research is that our french has not technically evolved, and that we have therefore kept the french spoken in france in the years 1500/1600.
edit: obviously our french has evolved since then, it was a way of saying that we are closer to the french which was spoken at the time than the french which is spoken in france today.
please don't start the uwu robot osti.
owo what is that
i read somewhere that they started to eliminate the 'rs' from their pronunciation as a kind of protest against the revolution, no idea if this is true.
excellent.
* torrrrrrrrrnak, marie, your dog shit again on the ground in the apartment *
famous phrase of louis xiv.
🤯
of course there is a right way. it depends on the environment you are in. for example, in montreal, pôteau is preferable to pole (i know, it's cliché). in quebec, we pronounce ci-me-tierre, while in france we say cim-tierre (syncope of e). language level also plays a role: if you are talking to a client, it is better to say " i'm sorry for this delay in production ", at the limit" i'm sorry (...) "instead of" chu sorry (...) ".
cofeve
parisians already despised regional dialects in 17th century literature. it's a long time ago.
sister ?
it is a variation of the spelling of an s (which looks a lot like an f)!
the germans, had we kept, in french it became a double s ß = ss (fesse or feße), lol
in quebec, white elephant stadiums are like hobbits with their lunches, it takes us a second.
well yes, we quite like our beautiful empty stadium at 500 million in quebec, montreal, you deserve one!
we were also talking about the 50% illiterate (including the functional) earlier this week. oh well...
[deleted]
asti que chus tanner political. it's always a calculation of how many votes such a measure will bring me. like roads, hospitals etc it is used by tlm, bin it goes last.
pu able. we are not just for a reform of the voting system, but a complete revolution of democracy.
if the arrival of a baseball team pays off for the economy ... then logic dictates that the departure of a team harms that same economy ...
how much money have we lost since the expos left?
small memory aid for the calculation: the money i spent the times i went to see the exhibitions, i would not have burned it. i would have spent it in montreal anyway. so don't forget to include my tickets in the calculation.
reminder # 2, don't forget to divide by 2, because we would have a part-time team
all i see in this story is a way for the caq to dislodge valérie plante from the town hall of montreal. they don't like each other a lot and coderre has been keen on bizeboule for a long time. it is a roundabout way of giving arms (however futile they may be) to ti-denis.
if the government makes the same mistake that the plq made with the videotron center, i hope that all teachers, nurses, and others affected by a lack of seriousness in collective agreement negotiations will go on strike in a generalized way. when the government says it has no more money to invest in education or health or for infrastructure projects like public transport, but all of a sudden we have money to finance toys billionaires and millionaires ... i'm fed up with this company that prioritizes bad things !!!
pi get money from a billionaire #justbecause
honestly, i don't really understand the recent excitement for baseball ... is it because the ch / impact / alouettes are not winning enough?
i remember being at the expos games a lot and by the end the tickets were $ 5 to sit even straight up front and the stadium was empty.
ciboince, i know he's a grandma, but it's not exactly what legault said ...
i have the impression that even though the worlds can read, they only read the headlines!
after bread and games, here is "fonts and games"
the canadian on television games, the sensationalism doomer tva and quebec soap operas are also a caq priority.
here in quebec, we put the priorities in the right places! if you like tanks, the budweiser and the baseball tee have a good place! 😕 nothing more beautiful than 20,000 poor people who encourage a bunch of millionaires to run after a ball! our schools are rotting, but that's okay.
i have never seen anyone of my generation watch baseball. (gen z)
if this project ever passes ... am i moving.
isn't an empty arena in qc enough? i work in close collaboration (in spite of myself) with the caq, and let me tell you that it is not all the sharpest pencils in the box that have been collected in this political party ...
a question for them who follow the file: they think to put that where a second stage? to montreal?
do they think we have room for that on the island?
can he not hear us complaining about the price of real estate in montreal every day ????
is he going to help us by razing a residential area to build another stadium?
can you just open up bar caliss first before building baseball stadiums during a pandemic?
i'm fine with a new baseball stadium, but just if inside there is a massive state-of-the-art hospital. like that in the next health crisis, we will not live two years in fear of "running out of beds".
the potential for embezzlement of public funds is dried up for the olympic stadium. this is what annoys the chums.
[deleted]
legault said he would be open to financial assistance equal to the taxes paid by the players .. the players will not live in quebec for 183 days and will not pay taxes. with a shared team, françois knows it won't happen
it was a way of not saying yes, of not saying no. a bit like when your mother told you: let's see. remember that legault is an accountant.
the roman empire method: bread and games
everything else will go like butter after this
we have to believe that montrealers are jealous of quebec.
[ok, that's typical.] (
seriously, it squeals at me!
not quite as critical, they have announced massive investments in all categories on the other girl.
the review would have been better if you would have put it all on girl who passes and named the surprise girl “balanced budget”.
a swing and a miss. this is not the reality
"if, tomorrow morning, there was a baseball team in quebec, there would be players who would pay taxes in quebec, taxes that we wouldn't have if we didn't have a baseball team, he explained. if we take a portion of this tax revenue there and give it to a business that brings us that business, everyone wins. ** what \ [of which \] must be ensured is that quebec will receive more spinoffs, and therefore real tax revenues, than the amount of assistance that would be given to a business. ** "
it would be more realistic if the girl on the right was quite old and stunted.
go expos!!
roads and infra are to my knowledge not badly financed to the max and it is the industry which has difficulty in following / recruiting and doing the job. companies in the field have a hard time finding staff even if their pay is only $ 20 an hour for jobs without experience or qualifications!
it's not like we have 20% of the unemployed population just waiting for a bib on their back to be able to feed their families.
fuck coderre, fuck la caq.
i vote against anyone who dares to talk about a baseball stadium.
is it me or has this sub's chat level dropped dreadfully lately?
sacrament, legault did not say definitively yes or no, he said that we should see the project and if it is interesting. but i feel like there is a lot of frustration spilling over into unrelated related topics.
why not make a stadium for an already established team like the alouettes for example
why not have both?
give them bread and games, they will never revolt
i want to put my two cents in the conversation. first a bit like many people here i am against this idea, but i still see some positive sides.
having a new stadium / baseball team will create jobs, but more than that, it will clearly help tourism, hotels, restaurants to name a few. it is clear that it will bring american tourists. in addition, it will allow the creation of new infrastructure.
in short it will not necessarily lead to bad things 🤷‍♂️
more than two.
montreal, quebec, there isn't trois-rivières in the same situation?
shit i just laughed aloud. 😅
i would add affordable housing funding to the list.
legault will not have my vote with a stadium instead of which there could be a 21st century district.
we have one from 1972
when i think that the contract says that the profits go to peladeau, but that it is us who pay if there is a deficit ... and that people walked in the street to ask that ...
it burns me ...
honestly it's really sad to see this stuff happening. but capitalism shows us possible fallout for a stage in the short to medium term. not for education unfortunately.
honestly, i really don't think that there is any significant actual support even among french-speaking white suburbanites lol
pink line!
the sympathies of baseball fans, period. i don't understand why you are excluding you, let's say tanned dominicans or montrealers themselves.
what are you talking about?
did you listen to what he said or take your news on reddit memes?
check, i'll simplify the work for you:
"if, tomorrow morning, there was a baseball team in quebec, there would be players who would pay taxes in quebec, taxes that we wouldn't have if we didn't have a baseball team, he explained. if we take a portion of this tax revenue there and give it to a business that brings us that business, everyone wins. ** what \ [of which \] must be ensured is that quebec will receive more spinoffs, and therefore real tax revenues, than the amount of assistance that would be given to a business. ** "
i'll even digest it for you:
if it pays off for quebec, we are interested, otherwise we are not.
eille the scandal you!
it is certain that if you take your news on the memes of reddit you risk to bad tripper.
yeah but no, past the snack to ginette your logic works better when you scale up.
on the contrary, it will make me vote for plante when i didn't think i would. i'm not sure of their calculation there, because coderre was just kicked out because of his stupid projects (formula e, baseball).
if that can reassure you, i am on facebook groups of plant collectors, and the climate is as toxic as it is here ...
i have been visiting the sub for several years and i notice the same tendency. personally, i believe this is mainly due to the large influx of new users in recent months.
by its nature, reddit is a very poor platform for debating competing ideas. people who don't exactly follow the mold of mainstream thought systematically get gossiped and simply disappear.
it's still not specific to / r / quebec, but i understand what you mean. i no longer have the energy to give to interact with people who question health measures based on conspiracy theories. i tell myself that it is too late for these people and it is exhausting to find yourself in a discussion where you just try to convince the other that you are right, in the end.
me and my boyfriend, we have reached the point where we realize that we have reduced our interactions with certain people around us because it is made too toxic. even without talking about covid-19, it looks like people are aggressive and just looking to ventilate about everything. we even limit facetime with our parents because they go from one negative subject to another. it's exhausting, it's heavy. it's sad how people are affected by everything that's going on, but i have no choice but to be a little selfish and protect my sanity in it. we are not going to start improvising as a shrink, hoping to help others. when it's been x times that you bring back the same flat subject, maybe ventilating that doesn't help you all.
i am very careful in my criticism of the way our government operates, both provincially and federally, because i simply do not have a concrete solution to offer. it annoys me the tendency to whine for the sake of whining. on the other hand, i am starting to get tired of the accumulation of crazy decisions. as long as they don't enforce their own regulations, there will be people who don't take them seriously. it's like a parent who is not at all consistent in how they discipline their child. except that there, we suffered all the consequences.
[deleted]
i took a look at your history and i think you're talking about things like [this thread] ( = 3)
for my part, i am sickened by the thick ostis who damn themselves about the rules and the people who defend them, i don't care about their argument
personally, i understand people who get aggressive. i have a member of my family in quebec who suffers from covid not only from the disease itself - which he caught in the hospital - in addition to having cancer, alzheimer's and stroke, but also for being sent home too soon after the undiagnosed stroke because other illnesses are starting to be poorly treated due to engorgement.
we all have less medical follow-up and everything that is preventive is pretty much canceled. i had no physio after a rough delivery because it was closed in the first wave, my baby has zero medical follow-up and a lot of people are waiting for operations.
i'm really sick of people who use people with anxiety and depression issues to justify sacrificing human lives for the economy. do you know what's so bad for anxiety and depression? losing people you love. you can't just use anti-containment collateral damage, without using covid collateral damage, that's just dishonest.
and don't come and tell me that the health system was sick before covid, we already know that, but now it is dying and we have to manage with the system we have now and not complete it.
i hope you didn't find it too aggressive, but to be honest i don't care.
/r/quebec en 2 points :   
1-post an interesting article, receive a few downvotes and / or no reaction
2-post a photo of château frontenac to a certain extent, exceed 200 upvotes
if someone writes: covid is just the flu, covid does not exist, it is the government's big reset, the mask prevents me from breathing, etc. he deserves to be voted -1000
if you write that confinement is questionable in the way it is executed, etc. ok, we can debate it.
the problem is that the 2 are rarely separated.
[deleted]
i approach in the same direction. it saddens me to see the number of people on the sub who seem downright blindfolded at the idea of a violent, disproportionate, and final repression towards those who stray from the recommended guidelines, and any attempt to bring such a nuance deserves you a deluge of comments which associate you with the conspirators. the polarization is alarming.
we must follow the sanitary measures for the common good. we must be vigilant to the tendencies of authoritarian slippages for the good of all. these two things complement each other, they are not opposed.
i more or less agree. those who want to be moral and superior in their dogma of covid measures resort to really violent opinions and phrases. i am thinking in particular of the post today on the boeing and the covidiots, but also of notions such as having those who do not respect health measures fully pay the health costs, the total lack of empathy for those who do not live well with confinement or who dare to criticize him, etc.
in short, people are getting cruel. but you have to think for a second that first, no one has this pandemic under control and no one will get it under control. it should also be remembered that these measures are unheard of and that science is indeed a long-term process. one can quickly have suspicions, but only time discovers the truth. so we must stop taking science as a dogma. that said, you can criticize the rules without being called a monster. quite short. it is part of citizenship and the democratic spirit.
finally, the fact that you are in a position to live well with sanitary measures does not negate the enormous degradation in the quality of life for others. inequalities exist, and frankly it's a sort of repugnant puritanism wanting to put forward morally to follow the rules well when in reality it is because you are in a position where whatever the psychic distress, of economic or material, you can manage them well.
the least you can do then is not to make them the killers. if you have to criticize them, let it be with a touch of compassion.
what i see, and this everywhere not only on / r / quebec, is a radicalization of the "hivemind" of opinion.
there is a way of thinking that is accepted as the right one and stepping out of that bubble is frowned upon. and that counts for all subjects. taking a stand against mainstream opinion will attract insults and rejection.
it is either a single bubble or divided in two. like you are with us or against us. no nuance possible.
sometimes i like it to debate to debate, to take a subject and turn it on all sides to see what happens. it is less and less possible.
trump vs biden. you have to be pro biden otherwise you are pro trump. period.
sanitary measures. you have to support the measures otherwise you are a covidot. period.
etc.. 
there is more lane in the middle, just white or black.
it's pretty boring debates.
at least before i thought we could debate on reddit even for fun, now take your camp and read the lines on the boxes, you have your opinion ready to go.
i find it is getting like that all over the place. there is more debate, just ideological blocks and more bickering and insults.
yes i know i noticed that some toxicity is starting to become more and more "the norm". it's unfortunate yes.
i had a strike on my account for hate / harassment because i said: yes even if it is boring that rozon is acquitted and well the justice system cannot remove the presumption of innocence.
not a strike from a sub la mod, straight from reddit.
the population loses the capacity for nuance, listening, healthy debate, empathy ... and so on.
some people have found themselves on the streets, others have lost their jobs, there have been divorces, house sales, relatives who die, people who have gone bankrupt, others who do not. can't have their major surgery and are wondering if they're going to die in the short term, who got screeched volleys, going through hell at home and a lot of other things that make people have different reactions than in normal times. you also have keveune in need of a gym who feels like going to crunch a bottleneck of strong in the back of your throat in an all-inclusive. i think the setup is easy to understand.
i don't know people's lives, their situation, their experiences and their problems. it happens to us all at some point to notice '' different '' attitudes of certain people close to us, but sooner or later we come to understand why they acted in this way, which is not the case '' on internet''.
i think that someone who has difficulty managing their own life "in the real world" will not be better "on the internet", on the contrary. i think it's been a long time since slippages on social networks exist, that people in distress feel the need to express themselves and to let off steam behind a keyboard, and that the quality of life in the `` cybernetic '' environment flies pamal low. let's say the current pandemic has nothing to help.
retribution justice (focused on punishment, almost conceived of as revenge), is as old as the world. i do not know what benefits evolutionary and social psychology could identify in it; perhaps it serves to maintain cohesion in a group by sending a strong signal against deviations. today, the deviants, it is the conspirators who believe themselves authorized to rationalize their lax health with the help of hazy theories.
these behaviors appear unacceptable in the eyes of those who, despite their doubts (because i imagine that many have them), nevertheless sacrifice themselves for the common good. the social separatism of the breakers of health rules seems to them a heresy, a threat to the cohesion of the group, a perfectly anti-social behavior and therefore intolerable.
there are other forms of justice, more focused on the rehabilitation of deviants, rather than on the expiation of their fault; but when the spirits are heated (and going around in circles at home enough to warm them up), it is difficult to reason calmly and be magnanimous. we rationalize our anger, and we demand the heads of the culprits.
moié chu la for the same my dude (or dudette)
sorry for being rough in the other comments section for as much as it's worth. i can see that i got carried away, worse that i probably equated a more extreme speech with yours.
are we virtually using our hands?
(i say that subject to article 2853.1 ccq ;-))
personally, i find the climate in r / quebec much ** less ** toxic than on ben facebook pages. and i'm not just talking about the pages of eric duhaime or tva nouvelles.
[deleted]
100% agree. for me it's really made a shitshow, from one extreme to the other.
it's ironic how people are proving your point directly in the comments of the post.
[deleted]
filter by novelty; you will see the beginning of the comments only and you will not see when it goes wrong.
i see that the majority of your publications here consist of simple photos of the landscapes of quebec (very pretty besides) and that they are practically all received quite positively.
i'm not sure where the problem is coming from. have you deleted any posts that have been poorly received? either way, publicly insulting the community as a whole is probably not the best way to calm things down and promote the substantive political discussions you aspire to.
the mood is indeed gloomy in the area, and the world is right in their comments, but it is not completely without precedent ... the various election campaigns bring their share of friction. (particularly the provincial campaigns ... there are no big supporters of the plc, the pcc and the ndp here, but i remember some tussles between pq and solidarity in 2018 ...) for the oldest, spring 2012, when everyone had their little "red square" or "green square" flair, was also painful.
it remains to be hoped that spring, vaccines and deconfinement will succeed in calming everyone down.
the "hivemind" (opinion of the pack in french?) of the sub went from "the witch hunt with your recalcitrant neighbors it's ridiculous" a month ago to "if you don't denounce your neighbors you deserve an almond as much than them ".
and by the way reddit itself works, if you haven't personally had the same ideological path as the sub during this same period, your opinion becomes bad and de-facto rejected.
i blame reddit, not the / r / quebec users for this. the opposite extreme is visible if you venture to the other side like / r / nonewnormal
it's nothing new, it's just that some people have noticed it more lately because they suddenly become part of the heads of turks. r / quebec has never been a particularly welcoming place for, say, minorities, and it's far from unique to this sub-reddit - it's the same everywhere on the internet, and it's not a pretty sight , no, but you have to learn to live with it because it's not going to get any better.
it's been preached for years that bullying was bad. now this is the accepting behavior. go figure ...
no you are not the only one to notice it. it's made toxic here and ditto for a few other subs on reddit and fb / twitter / ...
there is no more room for discussion and exchange. it's made binary where you share my ideas or you're a black helmet member in spaceball!
i love the phrase 'can you make an effort to endure? ''. but hey, have to deal with it and move on when everything becomes too toxic. good luck and happy new year op.
reddit is designed to be an echo chamber (see r / politics or r / conservative). this is the very meaning of the sub-repetitions.
note that i do not disagree with you. i'm just wondering if this is a function rather than a bug
quebecers hate each other.
culture is refused itself. we are living an identity crisis which tries as best as possible not to admit to itself.
bring your downvotes, ptit-québec.
people were selling their children for meat during the famines of the last century, the reality of human nature is quickly surfacing.
i have personally also noticed an increase in the participation of trolls on several subs, some of which are good enough not to always come out with noticeably stupid opinions, and therefore manage to stir up the anger of many.
the emergence of these people is likely due to containment, and the oversized response is likely related as well.
that said, there are some opinions that were never popular and that were being massively downvoted long before containment.
i got downvoted because i did a billing joke .... it's nice here.
once again have seen the same ones who start shouting insults on this very thread, it is sad op.
i at least take comfort in the fact that many here, from all "sides", can give their views with respect.
i mentally ignore comments from those who are too intense and just make those who don't think like them shout insults.
it's a general trend.
even in my family we have conspirators who come to light when i thought we were all "educated".
there is a problem with hypercommunication is that by dint of information overload there is a way to go crazy.
courage to all
friendly reminder that it's just imaginary points that are worth nothing
this is typically reddit. virtue signaling and downvote
truth, yo.
totally agree with you!
i subscribed to this subreddit in hopes that it would be different from facebook, but apparently i was wrong. it's only a little less worse ...
whether one is a conspirator or a conformist, rather than basing on others, surely one could explain and prove / educate others to prove our point of view.
when you see so many people wishing harm to others so gratuitously, you have to seriously ask yourself questions.
finally someone says so.
i often find myself writing a comment, just to delete it afterwards because i already know the reactions.
there is so much insult launched in the comments
mods, are you trying to pin that?
those who claim the highest toxicity are often the most toxic i'm not talking about you op but i hate this new generation of snowflakes who are pointing and indignant at each argument demanding censorship and the infringement of their rights it's really made people's lives stupid
the problem is that it's been 9 months that everyone with the slightest judgment tries to argue with the covidiots, the conspirators and the antivaxx, but it is not working, it's energy wasted. so yes in these three cases it is normal to be downvoted and it will continue.
no, but you're right.
op's comment is relevant. the top comments give me hope for the sub! you make me smile. it feels good.
we're pretty much all tanned for sure. the announcement of the $ 1000 that travelers could receive was like adding a nail in my nursing coffin.
i made a resolution to be more positive, but the world is pushing me hard.
let's try not to become a facebook 2.
seriously, it would be no worse if it got out of hand too much indeed ...
this is the second time i see this kind of post this month on the same r /. it's not just on the r / quebec page, it's the same everywhere on reddit. people have and always will be mean, it's part of the internet and its oversized ego.
it's woke like grandma
why not in fact? one does not prevent the other.
i don't like people who say right.
i am a victim, you are victims, we are all victims !!!
bliss !!! <3
i think it's pretty much all francophones in canada who are like that
"no because it is not the same!"
we are all in solidarity with the banks, we pay them generous service fees every month ...
who said that we are not united?
a meme that attacks a scarecrow.
"88% upvoted"
eh, cibole.
it is not a one-way street and unfortunately i have the impression that in many instances, it is not quebecers who have difficulty recognizing the oppression of others, but rather the reverse. several groups find it difficult to recognize the oppression experienced by many peoples with white skin color, whether they are quebecers, irish, or others.
from this perspective, it would be much more favorable to adopt a strategy of class struggle rather than a strategy of race struggle.
but that said, a political vision based on mainly past oppression is not very inspiring if we want to look to the future since it reduces the field of possibilities to hopes of reparations rather than hopes. unity, equality, etc ...
it is difficult to try to build together when we meet in hatred of what has been done before us. it makes you want to start from scratch rather than capitalizing on the work that has already been done. and let's be honest, there is some work done!
the other oppressed tell me that i am privileged because i am white so i must shut my eyes. sorry but the door seems locked on both sides
not bad all people were victims of oppression if you go back far enough
hahahaha laughing out loud.
calm that i am disgusted to see this stupid same osti. is there a way to filter the same on r / quebec?
i am anana!
the '' right '' is so out of place in this sentence. not in the mean sense but from the point of view of “oppression” and “quebec” in relation to the francophonie ... long live the irony.
big woke machine in motion on r / quebec .. you put me to sleep zzzzzz
tabernak i tell me you cough ignorance. acadian here and i am fed up with waiting for you to cry for your language. we were killed to continue speaking french. quebec nation socialist = communist. vaccinate vs not vaccinate. english vs french, amerindian vs immigrants, white vs black, liberal vs conservative. the hands that control the puppets want that we are silk on one polarity or the other. stop chialler ostia and start to like. win a cellar chalice. fucking sheeple who worship tva or lcn. let go of your differences and injustices and start promoting love, not separation.
we are not opressed get out of here eith that nonsense.
it is difficult to be united when the indigenous cause is taken over by racist whites to deny the legitimacy of quebec as a nation.
my coffee was very good.
right-wing nationalists believe that recognizing the oppression of indigenous peoples will undermine quebec's project for sovereignty, while left-wing nationalists like quebec solidaire believe quite the opposite, that recognition of the oppression of indigenous peoples is essential. to the quebec sovereignty project.
because no one takes you seriously when you say that the quebec people have been historically oppressed, mainly.
no one oppressed wants to be in solidarity with us in general, it is certainly not the natives or other ethnic minorities who will come and include us in their causes.
there are reasons for all this, we could easily argue that the oppression of quebecers is not comparable to that of blacks or natives, or say that technically "we have our province".
on the other hand, is there really an oppressive 'threshold' that qualifies you as an oppressed people?
should we really play the game of 'who is more of a victim' before deciding whether someone deserves respect or decency? most of english canada would tell you yes, most quebecers think no.
in my opinion, it is the fact that quebecers describe themselves as oppressed people, but that no one else seems to qualify us in the same way before having delved deeply into our history that makes us work so hard, even wrongly, to protect our culture that we do not feel would be protected without it.
is not it?
law
right?
i don't like people who don't like people just because they use a particular word
left?
cue oprah.
indeed (hello from ottawa)
no, it's the same, but i'm a chalice to the others, i don't want any reparation or anything for what the english have done. enslaved us there as we would have enslaved the english if we could. worse if we are realistic canada would be much better if the authocton abandoned their culture to mix with the westerners. it's the same with quebec if we had taken english culture, the country would be more united and in better shape.
nope, i'm dealing with desjardins :)
you need a new bank. i suggest tangerine or simplii. i don't pay any fees.
and not a word is said on the bank splitting which is the main cause of economic instability and too rapid growth.
90% of "solidarity": the what ?!
we are privileged to be white.
there is also that we are not so oppressed anymore so we have to recognize that.
but we don't have to shut our mouths.
we remember the time when the normans hugged a good one to the anglos-saxons.
brayon here.
"we're all the same anyway", "stop whining" "these are old stories" ... i've heard those catchphrases for the first two decades of my life.
"promote love" is exactly the discourse of the elites of new brunswick who want to push for harmony between the 4 peoples to create an artificial social peace ... to give them the free field to continue to steal from us.
and if you take the time to look at it properly, you will see that this ostia of social peace is just going one way and that in the end it is almost all the time the franco or the natives who bend to maintain peace and not to stir. of late ...
you talk about "divide and conquer", and i tell you that the elites of the maritimes are now at "convince them to keep quiet and watch each other, and that was their idea!"
ftfy
we were not oppressed get out of here with that nonsense. /s
who influential holds this position so fiercely that it makes you not support the aboriginal cause?
chic, you found an excuse!
no, it's not difficult.
you don't force yourself very hard; me, i have no problem being 100% in solidarity with.
what are you talking about? the people i see the most defending the aboriginal cause right now are sovereignists, myself included.
most people who are, don't even know why, they listen to what the mainstream media tells them to think.
they said that quebec is bad and that indian is good, but i won't try to find out more about why.
they don't even know what the first nations are claiming, it's just because it's fashionable that they follow it.
tse, if we want sovereignty, we must include and have all the peoples of this territory on board. natives, immigrants, allophones, muslims, jewish, black, white, everyone. make it appealing! i'll join if it's not about screwing the english, and more about climate and economic stability, divesting from alberta's oil, building up our healthcare system stronger, promote french and indigenous culture etc.
i think that recognizing the oppression of indigenous peoples is the right thing to do morally and that it comes before political calculations.
is there any data that suggests this?
in my opinion, there is no sympathy towards the quebecois because we are white
no one qualifies us as oppressed because by recognizing that the french language has been oppressed, we legitimize bill 101. it is not because the natives experienced a genocide that the deportation of the acadians, the forced assimilation of the métis in manitoba, speak white, etc. become gestures of love and peace. it's only been 50 years since we truly emancipated ourselves as a people. if you wanted to do anything other than a factory worker or a farmer before that, it was a doctor, parish priest or lawyer. all the wealth went through the english speakers. the engineers who built hydro before it became hydro-quebec all came from toronto. the factory owners were all english speaking. all the less educated jobs came from ontario. the quiet revolution is a very strong and very deep revolution.
it doesn't seem so bad the same in 2021 to speak english the same, but before that people had no contact with english and no english lessons at school, if you didn't give up to help your parents to arrive.
> the oppressed person wants to be in solidarity with us in general, it is certainly not the natives or other ethnic minorities who will come and include us in their causes.
yes and no. a form of reactionary nationalism has always been rejected by others, while a much more internationalist form of class nationalism has been welcomed all over the world. for example, the flq had links with the black panthers in the united states, with the algerian and irish anti-colonialist struggle. more broadly, this type of quebec nationalism has received sympathy among the struggles against american imperialism in latin america. this is where this meme hits 100% on target. over time, quebec nationalism became gentrified and broke with this momentum of the 1960s to practically not exist today in the mainstream. if a quebec company is successful, it has a good image among quebecers, regardless of its colonialist behavior in the countries of the south and the nationalists sweep aside all criticism on the pretext that quebecers were badly treated 70 years ago ergo, c it is correct for a quebec bourgeoisie to finally profit from colonial capital. we can think particularly of snc-lavalin (accused of corruption in haiti), bombardier (sale of military equipment to the american empire and its henchmen like turkey) and garda world (subcontractor of the american army in iraq and afghanistan).
my brother worked in california for a few years. during the first few months, he looked for a place to get quality poutine sauce and cheese curds.
obviously, that doesn't exist there. so he looked for an “exotic” restaurant that offered poutine. he finally came across a small restaurant run by a quebecer for a few years that offered poutine.
the restaurateur's holy sacrament brought him a fried sauce with cottage cheese on it.
it will take a complaint to the order of poutine of quebec.
the appellation controlée, it will stop horrors like the poutine of tim hortons. i am for.
blueberries in poutine, that's what puzzles me.
without jokes we could campaign for it to become part of unesco's intangible heritage.
i call those “sad poutines”, because whomever is eating it is sad that they don’t have cheese curds. 
if they use shredded cheddar, i call it an “alberta poutine” because that’s the only place i’ve ever seen such blasphemy
i believe that poutine® should only contain fries sliced in 31/64 ", 5.5 to 6 cm long, cooked in crisco © (method used by its creator in princeville). the sauce must be standardized to the standard iso-p0u71n3. no additions can be made to poutine® at the risk of prejudicing the name. checks will be carried out by armed agents of mapaq, the customer and the restaurant owner will be executed immediately in the event of an infringement .
how awful. hope you can sleep!
i am here, do not hesitate to write to me if there is any reason.
thoughts and prayers...
what i want to know is how to become an inspector to ensure that the appellation is respected! dream job!
the appellation contrôlée is not rather to ensure that it comes from a given territory? it can be just the same even if it's a "poutine" from quebec.
fun fact: at la tuque, it's called "frites au loup" when it's a "poutine" with mozzarella. it has this name because it is what was served at the arena during the hockey games of the local team, the loups de la tuque. ask for a wolf fries at la tuque and the restaurants will know what.
in northern ontario, in timmins, there is a convenience store / snack bar that makes the best poutine ever. except that they offer the choice between a "quebec poutine" and a regular poutine "the quebec is made with cheese poop (fucking exquisite) and the regular is made with grated mozzarella (fucking no).
nah, the appellation is stupid. just because we don't like the way others make their poutines doesn't mean we should stop them from making their poutines. the punishment for making a poutine of must is that the word is passed. you tell everyone that you can tell that this poutine is shit.
i lived in newfoundland for the majority of four years and over there their poutine usually they make with grated cheese. you have to ask for cheese poop (probably because it's expensive at the grocery store). i told everyone i could it wasn't real poutine. 《come to our place, my mother will make you a poutine.》 that's what i was saying. all my friends there know it's not real poutine, but they like it anyway. they like poutine anyway and when i tell them that ours is even better it makes them want to come and visit. whether we like it or not, the poutine that is served elsewhere is like a portal into our culture. removing that will prevent people from taking an interest in quebec.
"but getting a protected designation is not easy, the process can take years."
years for 3 ingredients !!!
my god!
oh no that's wrong!
export / use real quebec curd cheese for the real experience or call yourself "fries with gravy and cheese"!
and no, wisconsin curd cheese doesn't work, real quebec cheese curds!
it’s really pocket-friendly but i’m not going to encourage the cartels because i’ve had a bad experience. imagine the guy who wants to go to a pi snack bar who can't put the word poutine on the menu because the right person hasn't paid for it.
i love the idea !!
you could have put nsfw so that i don't go to see ... "that", tse
blueberries? this is new
were you at the "snack bar chez raymond" by any chance?
coming soon: controlled canadian appellation!
i have already been served at the zoo de saint-féliciens in lac st-jean a poutine with grated cheese. i was shocked. i thought i was safe in the region, especially with the local cheese factories that sell almost nothing but cheese in poop.
we need the poutine police. a squad dedicated to establishing the order in the poutines so as not only to poutines with cottage cheese as mentioned above re arrives haha
yeah, if in addition that includes made in quebec, that would be perfect.
worse ha the damned immigrants arrive here and want it to be like in his country because you know well the poutine c international ....
it's time to switch to the protected designation of origin! like good wine, good cheese and soon, i hope, good poutine. in any case i vote high for as a franchouillard who loves his appellations.
there will be no appellation control
after all there is nobody who runs the kebeque
outside of quebec i wouldn't be surprised about that, but how can anyone sell a fake poutine here without any qualms ??
is it me or are there blueberries on your poutine?
mmm let's see what weighs more in the scales ... on the one hand, the freedom to create, experiment and try combinations of ingredients without forcing anyone to eat them and leaving the market to decide what. who works and what doesn't, and on the other, a kind of poutinian elitism (both the dish and the president) seeking to make the state responsible for who has the right to mix fries, gravy and cheese and call it poutine. and let me guess, a little 20% more taxes for that? lol no thanks.
if it doesn't come from the poutinaise region of quebec, call it * sparkling fries. *
what frustrates me right now is when people start talking about poutine as being a canadian dish that was invented in ontario .... ugh ... and then they argue they're right (online at discord ...).
yes to the appellation controlée, yes to l'organisme de la poutine to educate people about poutine, yes to the ordre des poutiniers du québec.
the original recipe poutine is in our quebec culture, it must be protected. all countries try new recipes that are nothing
to see with fries / quic-quic cheese / brown sauce, they can invent some but he doesn t call it a poutine, tab .....
i do not understand the obsession with poutine in quebec. yes it's good, but really overrated. to make it a protected designation is really overkill. why not promote our good quebec cheeses instead.
go give shit to the snack bar for misrepresenting it but don't start taking your experience as an argument for this stupid fkn idea. it was brought up because of a greedy ceo. putting in law what a meal can and cannot be kills any concept exploring the recipe. fk off
niesage. c for poutine
r/gatekeeping 
it's censorship, poutine must be free to become what we want. you purists go to my aunt jocelyne's cabin for your poutine. 😉
it would be seriously shameful for quebec to have a controlled appellation for fucking poutine.
the obsession of some for a disgusting fast food dish strikes me as the representation of a dying people clinging to their last symbols, as insipid as they are.
in england several years ago i wanted to make a poutine for my english friends. obviously there was fuck all.
i had roast beef sauce and strong aged cheddar cheese .. they have fries but it took me two months catcher that they call it chips ...
i was there: "criss didn't make you a poutine with tabarnak doritos"
help you
they liked it, i was dead inside.
wait a minute ... cottage cheese ???
i'm happy to explore poutine variants in my spare time, but cottage cheese is too much.
the sacrament should have advised him to take something else because what he was serving was not a poutine per se. "go elsewhere because my pout 'it's not worth the shit"
in seattle i had eaten a turkey gravy sauce poutine with grated mozzarella and parsley on top.
the worst part is that there is a cheese factory in seattle that makes authentic cheese poop (beechers) and they use it to make mac and cheese.
noooo it's horrible i don't even want to imagine 😭😭😭
'scuse, looks like you said * cottage cheese *?
there's a montrealer in shanghai who has a place for poutine and smoke meat, when i went there with my local friends spotted me there as soon as i put mustard on the smoke meat and he got me warned that there might have been cheese curds. my hero.
[deleted]
im shaking and crying rn. these horrible. cottage cheese ??? criss puts at least mozzarella 😭
in a way i'm proud but the canadian flag in blue ... iich.
at the same time, it's the equifax site: one of the most botched the web has known.
🇳🇺 english
🇧🇯 french
🇸🇲 italian
🇫🇮 swedish
unpopular opinion: pearson's flag was much nicer than the current maple leaf.
bin company osti.
i'll allow it
how to make people happy.
*madagascar penguin meme*
we did it boys, we solved canada
pffrofl ...
/r/blursedvexillology
they respected the cedilla, it's already beautiful!
omg !
[tiens](
if its only his ... cabochon company criss. i speak from experience
canada in a nutshell
isn't that the symbol of blue live matter in canada?
the flag of the province of canada in federal quebec
imagine the quebec flag in red and white.
[deleted]
they look so badly organized, it underfunded, security the same. it's a time bomb .. it's a fucking shame that they have so much intelligence and are so vital to citizens ..
ho is not a funny site
but hey, when your identity is at risk because of a cooperative that i would not name, you have no choice
🇧🇷 portuguese
i agree, and it was rejected in part because anglophones saw the potential addition of blue as a concession to quebec ...
i don't know if it's because my father was in the military, but i like the maple leaf. but replace the red bands with blue and we chat for real.
i allow it
canada in a shell?
is that what is happening with the majority bloc?
based
no thanks!
i just closed my eyes and imagine it, and when i opened my eyes i had a plq membership card that magically appeared in front of me, is that normal?
you mean the habs flag /s
it doesn't take much
money cannot fix a bad corporate culture. even if the company injects money into its it security department, it will still have a culture of mard. bad employees will take care of their jobs, and good employees will leave to work in a company that cares about quality, honesty, etc. at the end of the day, there is still a mard company with mard employees who just do marde.
> it's a time bomb.
the bomb has already gone off, we are discussing the rubble ...
equifax used to be called retail credit company. it's a bomb that has been blown several times already.
>retail credit company's information holdings and willingness to sell its information attracted criticism in the 1960s and 1970s. these included that it collected "... facts, statistics, inaccuracies and **rumors** ... about virtually every phase of a person's life; **his marital troubles, jobs, school history, childhood, sex life, and political activities**." the company was also alleged to reward its employees for collecting derogatory information on consumers.\[30\]  
>  
>  
>  
>in 1970, after the company had computerized its records, which led to wider availability of the personal information it held, the u.s. congress held hearings that led to the enactment of the fair credit reporting act. this legislation gave consumers rights regarding information stored about them in corporate databanks.\[31\] it is alleged that the hearings prompted the retail credit company to change its name to equifax in 1975 to improve its image  
>  
>[
i do not advise you to inquire about the reasons which led to one of the last hacks of equifax, you would risk leaving your ski-doo in the yard.
spoiler alert version eli5: they had not updated windows for months.
🇱🇮 german
in fact, it was because the conservative english canadians did not want to replace the * union jack * with some canadian flag. french canadians and liberal english canadians wanted a canadian flag other than the * union jack *, period, no matter what shape.
the maple leaf comes from the flag of the royal military college of canada;)
lol, i keep this preciously.
did you say charest three times in front of the mirror at midnight ?? because that's what happens !!
oh boy another dude by the lake
oh shit thanks i didn't know! i'm not the guy who thinks that the gov is the solution to everything but it seems to me that a credit bond is so necessary to evolve in our society that it does not make sense for a company all wrong like that. 'takes care of ... the minimum fooking would require that the standards / norms etc .. be reinforced and verified including their algo to calculate the coats, security etc ..
wait, i knew it beeen before desjardins
yessir!
en [2017 aussi]( 
then it is they who must protect us after the flight from desjardins.
from what i understand it is not a choice. these verification companies * already * have everyone's information, the catch is that companies like desjardins then have to pay them to properly manage this information and not leaker.
yeah that was hard to forget .. desjardins doesn't have much choice .. equifax or transunion, there are no other options in canada. personally transunion my file was all wrong i had a really average rating with almost no history, i had to have it corrected i was unable to increase my credit limit with tangerine who just seems to be looking at the rating with them. however, on the equifax side, i have the majority of my things and a great coat.
i quite understood that with. there is just no competition and quite a few big american players, one being equifax and the other whose name i forget.
everyone can see that it's trashy for bombardier too
** the work of art being drained in the middle of the living room **
** home **: i'm a dirty pig
** at pkp **: it's modern art and it is deducted from the tax.
the reality is that we don't need most of the jobs to run the grassroots society so we create a bunch of jobs to improve the quality of life and a bunch of others that are downright useless but given that 'we are stupid, we prefer to pay to deprive him to take care of him.
notice: it's not fair in quebec, it's like a planetary mental illness.
but take it for granted, in politics the ruling party is primarily judged by job creation / loss. it's the number one job for politicians, the rest is flavor.
crime
goal goal goal ... fleuron québecois!
the "mature" post-ww2 political system, socialism for the very poor, socialism for the very rich.
[deleted]
the answer to the question might just be "tax deductions".
it's not because the trashy world thinks you're classy that you are classy
"a less polluting aircraft"
tabarnak! ...
as a native who loves asterix books since i was a kid… wtf?
omg thank you! 😂😂
can someone explain to me the history of tintin recently? i am r / outoftheloop
i find it a bit weird that we are talking about “woke” that go too far in this story. catholic private education is quite far from bolshevik meetings.
i don't think an eclipse could settle ontario.
[deleted]
looks real, where can i buy this comic?
when will the castafiore become an ss wolf?
wonderful work! i liked that she specifies that whites cannot speak for native people. it borders on mental illness there, clearly, this woman believed to be indigenous, a bit like [rachel dolezal] (
'ᵉˢᵗ ᶜᵒʳʳᵉᶜᵗˀ ᴬᵘʲᵒᵘʳᵈ'ʰᵘᶦ ᵒⁿ ᵃ ˡᵉ ᵈʳᵒᶦᵗ ᵈᵉ ʳᶦʳᵉ ᵈᵉ ˡ'ᴼⁿᵗᵃʳᶦᵒˀ
lol ontario doesn't look like it. it's worse.
lol
wokistan! i love
i wonder what happened from tin-tin to the congo i read that when i was young then i understood what the belgians had done in the congo ... better to have everything that under the carpet of history.
it is the flames added by photoshop that cement everything in this image.
we can see the same reference here in a sequence of rick and morty on the retarded (one could say retarded or mongolian here) [ inconnu( .youtube.com / watch? v = eobokxecvaa) '' this is a symbolic problem for powerful groups who feel their actions are beneficial.
tintin is the new "martine"?
can someone explain this to me in english? i’m in the wrong sub but keep seeing posts about this cartoon from back in the day
are you talking about the fires in ontario or progressivism? really ontario is very conservative i hate it here lol
i have read several books by tintin. they are a bit out of date today, but tintin was created a hundred years ago, times change.
it's normal that you don't understand, you're just a native. let me find you an old white lady who can explain to you why tintin is wrong.
there's a live where asterix and obelix meet in america. adventures and stereotypes follow, but who cares because adventures and stereotypes, everyone goes through them.
white women thought you should be outraged, fak you're outraged, good!
it had to be done! inspiration from a post by u / profproof
a french-speaking catholic school board decided to burn 5,000 books dealing with natives in the name of reconciliation, including comics that we all read as children.
the reasons given for each book were often pitiful.
the next day people from all over the planet tell them that they are profound morons doing this and radio-canada reveals that their indigenous advisor is not indigenous at all. the operation is stopped, saving 200 of the 5,000 pounds.
as the fake native is co-chair of an aboriginal thing at the liberal party of canada, justin is asked for her opinion who says it's okay because the woman identifies as aboriginal.
hey, to behead someone, you have to start building a guillotine
someone who calls himself the guardian of indigenous oral knowledge and who says written history is inferior to the oral history trudeau takes as his indigenous advisor really has little to do with catholicism.
they won't be able to know when she will come since they will have burned their newspapers
not in ontario anyway
in catholic churches, these temples of "wokism" ... apparently.
it's a glitch in the program:
1. * whites are, without exception, colonizers who perpetuate white supremacy and despise people of color *
2. * i am against white supremacy and i have nothing against racialized people *
3. * considering (1) and (2), i am not white *
touch? the madam is clearly not good at burning books in 2021.
nationalpost.com/news/canada/book-burning-at-ontario-francophone-schools-as-gesture-of-reconciliation-denounced/wcm/479bc35d-856a-42f3-9df3-44ff7b392a8a/amp/
one of the two is a little more flamboyant in the media than the other
when you study tintin, you realize that hergé evolves a lot with his research approach to write his books. he was full of prejudices and corrected the shooting with the following albums. but in the end, it was still written in the 1930s and it changed a lot. with the blue lotus we see a big difference from the previous ones elsewhere. but hey burning the past rather than teaching why it's no longer correct today to portray certain communities as he did is really not helping the cause. as if the burnt past would make the problem disappear ...
finally, true canayan wisdom
when you're so woke that you're doing neo-colonialism lol
facebook link only. thank you!
this is one of my favorites. the cover was really original. i didn't know i must be feeling offended. ehhh ben
> but who cares because adventures and stereotypes, everyone goes there.
among others, the germans (asterix and the goths), the different regions of france (the tour de gaul of asterix), the british (asterix and the bretons), the spaniards (asterix in hispania), the swiss (asterix in the swiss), the corsicans (asterix in corsica), the belgians (asterix among the belgians), the scots (asterix among the picts)… all roughly caricatured to bring out the comic side.
and it was released in 1931! everything was different almost 100 years ago.
i can't read the word outraged without thinking of bye-bye 2000-something ...
with a little help from me ...
i made the right choice to change my vote today 😂
oh wow! i had no idea that the said aboriginal woman in question was not!
in fact she burned about thirty pounds.
5,000 were recycled
[deleted]
seal wadding
especially not the nice catholic schools for the natives lol
wokism goes hand in hand with the anglo-saxon world.
a beautiful bus keolis!
it's like the electric audi: e-tron.
lol, glad to see that i'm not alone. my girlfriend does not see the problem ... me, that's just what i see.
wasn't a single francophone on the committee to notice it? or maybe is it intentional trolling?
good! i'm not the only one!
i arrive in shawinigan en keolis
keolis, from the same company from which came the very famous "keveun"
i want more
i was bored of ouinie!
asti whenever i see one of their buses on the street, i have to say it. it's made like a nervous tick. can't believe that they don't know what their name sounds like in french lol.
a nice quality poo-post here thank you bcp
* tch'âliss de st-sacrament de viarge *
good work
everytime !!!! ahahahaha
like callinthebin! #thashwhitekeb
i was telling myself that i was not the only one to see this. hats off to whoever found the name
oh my god i'll never see them the same way again.
* beautiful bus
i hide my drink in nestea.
like this buick: lacrosse
wow at mtl heap airport got this poster in mega big. i laughed every time i passed
me also ii every time i pass in front of the 40 i condom and my girlfriend tells me that it's just me
it is in fact a company of french origin!
* a gdrdrosse tcherisse de tchrevrettre !! *
[with echo]
tokébak icitte sti! ;)
[the next one who says "the bus" i stab him:).] (
seriously, you have to force yourself to speak in a houndstooth so that it doesn't sound like a coronation!
long live freedom, long live independence!
\ - françois-marie-thomas chevalier de lorimier, hanged on february 15, 1839
imagine living your last moment with a view and din of the highway: s
i do not understand that this is not a statutory holiday in quebec ...
i remember....
-historical event for our culture
-a legitimate reminder of the place represented and a comparison with the present
-a post that, even though i knew the story, i had never seen this photo
and in spite of that: - can you pass to another call?
can you have less respect please?
oh no ... you got fed up with a fake subject, should the nation just forget about history?
criss, there are just the license plates that we can remember.
those who ignore the pass are doomed to see it repeat. it's funny how english canada decides that we don't need to have our own history and that a whole new generation is more than okay with it.
these not as if we had 231 years of history before the english arrived here.
there is probably nothing that these give during this time so let's see.
scuse. very good post. but calinne that the comments discourage me
i'm a little french tourist here and i'm not sure what we're talking about ... can someone give me some info, that sounds interesting?
my girlfriend showed me this right after we met, told me all about it. a few weeks later we made the path of the patriots for st john. everyone sang all the old songs about the atrocities committed by the english.
i am english. she always says she's sleeping with the enemy!
we don't even talk about it in high school ... it's pretty incredible that an event like this is rarely talked about.
600 fullum in the background there is a modern-day prison for the soul.
fake. there is no traffic jam. op takes us for idiots.
/ u / sutichik based and independence pillaged
ahhh ok it is the help of the people who suffered the most? in this case the jews win hands down! close monitoring by armenians and tutsi
is that the white privilege?
[
i know it won't be popular here, but screech can you move on to another call?
in canadian history, the advent of responsible government is often presented with lafontaine and baldwin as the culmination of the patriots' struggle. now, i think it is good to recall from time to time that de lorimier did not exclaim "long live liberty and long live the responsible government!" "
that, and in the shadow of the hideous jacques-cartier bridge ...
in theory it is ... but in may.
i remember those patriots who died for the cause in search of a better society. may they stay in peace
> and in spite of that: - can you pass to another call?
probably an "angry qs" ...
it is indeed very interesting: 
> we were made the path of the patriots for st jean.
you never hear about it and always drunk people garoching in a fire on the plains.
> i am english.
well, you have no worse french!
> she always says she sleeps with the enemy
hmmm ... you know what they say ... keep your friends close; keep your enemies closer.
hahahaha, j'adore. welcome to the gang my friend
i have seen plenty of anglos (including the british) who are for sovereignty; it exists, but they keep a low profile, because they are generally considered to be traitors and that is quite normal.
but we, if we consider the francos who are against sovereignty as traitors, we are "bad guys", because everybody has our political opinion ...
> we don't even talk about it in high school ...
i do not know what teaching program you are basing yourself on to advance this, but it is in the training program of the quebec school, in the course [history of quebec and canada] ( // www. education.gouv.qc.ca/fileadmin/site_web/documents/pfeq/histoirequebeccanada.pdf), this is the last historical period studied in secondary 3.
the relevant section can be found on pages 39 to 44 (if you rely on the pagination of the pdf) or 35 to 40 (if you rely on the pagination of the document)
for having worked there i can confirm.
is that the government building you're talking about?
my guy, what's going on in your head today hahaha
what's that got to do with skin color? do not mix things up, if you are an independentist it will not advance your cause.
you're right. the (woke) and anti-racists want to assimilate us with the shits that the english have committed. we have nothing to do with the slavers or with the massacres of the first nations. on the contrary, the french in canada were the first to make general peace with the first nations.
bruh what my boy ... what's the connection
i remember.
personally i find that he does not show it often enough. i hope that next week i will come across this photo again and again to remember those courageous defenders of the people oppressed by the british in time.
be patient. at midnight the british imperialists will once again have citizenship.
wow, you shame your username.
do not.
long live the free quebec.
as long as independence is not achieved, it will remain to be done.
it could not always not happen.
i am going to let you in on a secret that you will not repeat.
if i understand correctly, you are telling me next time!
we spit in our hands, and then we start again!
for me, as long as the appeal is national and visceral, it's going to be hard to win.
are you an uneducated cellar osti who didn't finish high school by chance? criss that it discourages me fools like you
responsible government was the reason for departure, but with the complete rejection of the 92 resolutions and the response by russell's resolutions, the patriote movement of lower canada became militant for independence.
he didn't shout it either i think, but he did write it. the independence movement of the patriots was very different from that of today (context requires, we were not even in the same regime), but they were indeed separatists and these people are in a way precursors of the movement which has persisted through the st-jean-baptiste societies throughout their existence since 1834. these societies, with the exception of the one in sherbrooke i believe, have all taken a stand in favor of the independence of quebec.
believe me, those who say "oh the patriots were not separatists" are just federalists who preach for their parish. they literally took up arms against the english regime and dr. nelson drew up a declaration of independence from lower canada from the united states. not a "two canadas" declaration of independence. more separatist than that, it does not exist.
do you find the bridge hideous?
man, i would need it more in february than in may of a holiday.
qs is for the independence of quebec bahahaha. i too am a hyper socialist and a mega big history nerd, i value our history and completely agree that the government of quebec and our education system do not talk about it enough. qs side their platform is pretty blah, their plans are not very clear at the moment.
it seems to me that it was not when i was there. is this a (relatively) recent addition or my memory of old chnok that is lacking?
it must be terrible to work there, so far from drinking restaurants for dinner (i absolutely hate having to drag my food to work) ...
yeah.
i don't know what the connection is but people keep telling me that i am privileged ... i try to find out why!
i have people from my family who fought alongside the patriots. (you will read the story of the battle of st-eustache) and who suffered from the violence of the english.
i wonder how having had their house burnt down makes me a privileged one.
in what way to have been conquered, and undergone the violence of the english makes the québécois of the privileged ones? i just don't understand. should be explained if you want us to understand your point of view
yeah but we must not say it and make our good little quebecois submissive and turn the other cheek and carry the weight of our conquest on our shoulders without making a wave ...
i was told on twitter that i was a white previliegier. so i wanted to know if having hanged ancestors was a previlege.
the ohio valley is ours
sweet home louisiana
i cannot find the original source of the image, if you know the source please feel free to post it here to give credit to the right person.
*** greater quebec ***
we want a country.
quebec empire
we already have a bunch of cities and states that sound french: detroit, chicago, illinois, vermont ..
it is as if britain still considers the united states to be one of their colonies.
the window of opportunity has passed. the socio-economic context has changed. it's a shame, but we have to look ahead. you have to come back at some point hug.
come on, let off steam.
"i also remember" 🤣
what is the country on the right?
can someone explain to me in a few words what does the dream of the right-wing country represent? what country is it? is it a country with independence aspirations?
remember ....... always remember
i remember me
even better, revolutionary empire of quebec!
i love quebec, but i never understood all the separatist thing. without the rest of canada, we are virtually useless!
there's nothing in the world less funny than fucking polandball
truly? i live in ohio and although i love the united states, i wouldn't be against free health care 🤔 ...
and the west to beyond the rocks, if we trust the toponymy
well said!
(excuse us for the war of conquest ..)
this is partly because we said "it's mine!" that we have lost everything too! it's just jokes but at the time the nf was more of a trading post than anything else and the ohio valley was populated almost exclusively by authoctones with english settlers lobbying.
and indiana would speak french too
/r/polandball
yes!!!
yes sir
think big!
saint laurentian empire *
chicago sounds french ??
"chicago" = the "swomp" in native american (without joke ...). illinois too, it comes from the native american if i remember correctly ...
(it would be funnier to mention the grand tétons mountains ...)
it's almost like it's a joke.
you'll laugh less when the quebec legions cross the ottawa river.
[deleted]
it was the german empire from 1871 to 1918. before 1871, germany was not a country. only a few non-unified countries. in 1871, all countries of german nationality united to create one of the most powerful empires in history. germany will never be so powerful (except perhaps in 1940). on the right, the dream is dead, only a memory.
it is the german empire following the franco-prussian war and their annexation of alsace lorraine (region of france), france recovers the said region following the first world war. the german empire is greatly reduced following their defeat.
i think it refers to the old poland, bigger than the current one ...
and seems to me that the colors of the flag are not good ...
i searched a bit, but i couldn't find ...
(historical anecdote: the philosopher jean jacques rousseau had written a constitution for poland. they found it delusional and rejected it ... it is the constitution that inspired american founding fathers and i have always thought that that explained many of their political problems ...)
are you kidding or what?
[deleted]
r / polandball is beautiful, indeed.
quebec invasion of ohio 2021!
me neither, and we have already accepted the language of the conquerors, so ... why not ??
interesting fact: pittsburgh and toronto were created
and st. louis, detroit, new orleans. it didn't work out very well in boston though
you
where's the joke?
1870 to 1918, not wwii
ah, thanks for the info!
ah, thanks for the story reminder!
american or polish political problems?
what about free trade?
big, it's clear that you don't understand how the tariffs work. an increase would not help quebec. you do not believe me? see the united states ...
shit, ohio and quebec gonna secede and form a new country. i'm down as long as you guys share the poutine  ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
obviously, the government will focus on the 3rd while ignoring the other 2.
i was talking with a tank top friend at the port this weekend. the longshoremen's union, construction, civil service, nurses, teachers are all working with expired employment contracts that are being negotiated.
but that the pandemic comes to an end, it will break down.
i love it, i steal this one from you!
fuck i love it hahaha
a bit like the media, i think it would be important to make a nuance on the "anti-vaxx conspirators" who are for the most part (like me) not really against vaccines but well against the obligation to be vaccinated (explicit or implicit). this is what bothers.
that and the government which has been shutting down small businesses for over a year. the reality is that the repercussions of the closures don't seem to have a significant impact on shutting everything down and shrinking cases enough to then deconfin. we therefore fall into the perpetual cycle of confinement / deconfin and bankruptcy in the process. those who will pay for it are the next generation ... clearly the pandemic is managed like our health and education system: unlimited budgets and extra-powerful unions which leads to the "de-responsibilisation" of management and employees. if your boss can't tell you what to do and your employee isn't obligated to follow your instructions and cash is never a problem, this is the situation.
** access to housing: ** clearly this is a problem. not sure that the government will be able to do much about it ... with the increase in mortgage qualification prerequisites, they have literally created a rush on housing, even expensive ones. by forcing the world to stay at home without entertainment for so long, the exodus from montreal caused homes to become ultra scarce and prices across the region exploded. if people had their jobs (which most of them lost due to confinement), it would probably be a lot less worse.
what we feed grows.
and yes, it is indeed to a cause of little use that we offer all our collective attention. always laugh at the ridiculous before addressing what is important. or maybe it's the easy opportunity to empty that everyone seizes.
in any case, we need the real causes to be heard, stop feeding the well, be careful that the story of conspiracy is.
what we feed grows, so feed something meaningful please
i would have put the decolonial antiracist collective in the place of the conspirators, since it is really an organization which wants to be progressive but which is not at all.
for real with the last polls that i saw, i really don't really understand quebec anymore ...
yo the demonstration for the cegep teachers is a real joke lol
they forgot the independence of quebec. that would probably solve the first two if we stopped getting screwed by ottawa.
it is starting to get old there the logging on the mischievous plots. get a grip.
fuck legault, fuck the measures, fuck the old people! crying for dying i just want to live my life and continue to piss off the misfortune of others!
another low-quality meme that shits on the favorite scapegoat of pro-containment and pro-legault lurkers, obviously that will be the top post of the day.
not just the government, the media too. it generates more clicks
"problem x does not exist, the only problem is the pandemic."
yeah it's true the government ignored the union struggle in education so much
the floor is ... housing crisis.
i confirm that in health, our employment contract ended on april 1, 2020
the negotiations before, we had zero increases because it was austerity and spending cuts
those before hadn't had much either, because the economy was not going very well.
now it's been a year that we've been pissed off working overtime, working with the risk of getting infected with the virus, and everything that goes with the pandemic.
the government can't touch nurses right now, but once the pandemic is over, that can change quickly.
so in my opinion, on the one hand, the government is going to drag this out a little longer while the sympathy of the nurses crumbles a little. then he will negotiate with the nurses and give them as little as possible. once that is done, they will turn around, and offer even less to the rest of the public service. because for the average population, a civil servant is a pencil pusher, forgetting all the technicians, electricians, plumbers, etc. who are also part of the public service and who are just as essential as a nurse to run a hospital, and everyone has no capital of sympathy from the population ...
the calm before the storm quite a bit all over the world.
serious people who talk about the future generation and do not mention climate change and only talk about jobs and economics are well off posterity. you just take the arguments that suit you. go get vaccinated or move to india / brazil to find your supposed lost freedom.
ok...
maybe you are finally confronted with something other than the echo chamber and the epistemological bubble of social networks and search engines ...
[deleted]
why?
disagree. we are en masse capable of cramming ourselves.
lol. the speech of the 90s. it does nothing but apologize to the quebec government for doing nothing and blaming all its probs elsewhere. well done.
it seems to me that last year, there was a lot of talk about independence in the media for a while. i'm not sure when, but i remember thinking to myself that this was just not the time to talk about this in the middle of a pandemic.
without going into the sovereignty debate, the business with independence is that it is really practical to polarize and inevitably divide the quebec population.
it is sometimes quite embarrassing how obvious it is how the media and some politicians use the discourse of sovereignty as a distraction tool.
signed: roger the toothless who did not go further than his secondary 1 and who thinks he is smarter than those who work for the who
pro containment? criss on what planet do you live? no matter how hard i have searched for a year, i haven't seen a single "pro confinement" post. i have seen people believe in measures, obey them, but be pro containment? obeying the measures does not mean that you are for necessarily. no one is happy that everything is closed. but if it is the effort that must be made to save as many people as possible, then the normal adult will plunder on his little pride as a spoiled child who believes that everything is owed to him and does what is asked of him.
that's my big name, it's a responsible adult.
oh i forgot, like i said, i have never seen a "pro" but anti containment yes, worse you are the only ones to have demonstrated .... with the result of outbreaks of the virus in 2 buses.
so yes i hope with all my heart that it is in the top, just to be able to come and drink your snowflake tears unable to take on themselves even in front of a meme
you can post your anti-containment meme if you want, no one is preventing you.
i assume you are pro covid then?
not just the media. reddit too. karma is much easier to harvest this way.
there is going to be a workers' revolution. it could bring big changes to the way we work and our relationships with our employers.
damn nice way to close a debate when it doesn't suit you ... we're not talking about global warming, we're talking about debt. if you want to talk about global warming and justify mongolian spending with your taxes on the fact that we're gonna be dead ... that's exactly why boomers don't give a fuck about you or me or the kids. they'll be dead long before they have to suffer the consequences of their stupid choices
same here, i don't like where it goes
their demands are stupid, they lack for nothing and they protest for the wrong reasons. primary school teachers are the ones who deserve changes, it would take a long discussion to explain all of this.
am for independence but i agree with you 100% on this one
amen
to have the choice, i like all the better to be fucked by myself.
big dick energy
when trudeau didn't want to close the borders
not a speech from the 90s. it's a speech from the 1763s. drop your religious culture lessons and the wokes and take a book and a calculator.
jai ma hutyieme anner tu sora!
according to his logic, they are pro-covid ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯
the pro-containment are those who get stuck with the pandemic and ** real rational measures proposed by public health ** and offer hygienic theater under the pretext that this is how we are going to get by. , while changing the goalpost each time.
still incomprehensible to you? look at the curfew. people who wear their masks outside or in their tanks when they are alone. the 1m distance (instead of 2) at college next session. the intense cleaning of all surfaces, as if a little push-push on a table would change anything. and finally, the famous vaccine passport which will be used for * much more than just travel *.
everything i just listed is part of multiple actions, measures, new normalities, etc. which have the sole purpose of ** pretending that we are doing something, but in reality all that does is restrict our freedoms even more. ** it has nothing to do with the measures that really make sense , such as the 2m distance, the compulsory mask inside shops, etc.
do you think that in 2021 we are immune to history? ** a government will always take advantage of a crisis to expand its power and ensure more authoritarian actions. ** relevant example: the * patriot act *. just like measures like the current curfew, it was meant to be temporary and only used for the purpose of * managing a crisis *. and yet, it stuck, and everyone farmed their own.
> but if it is the effort that must be made to save as many people as possible
but is your goal * really * to save as many people as possible? in this case, the zero covid theory is probably more to you, but we already know that [using this approach we remain confined until at least 2030 and possibly forever given the excessive power that we give to governments .] ( at some point, you have to know how to take risks. the important thing is not only to live, but to * live * well. i'd rather die sooner and have a good life than live longer but be confined and miserable.
> oh i forgot, like i said, i have never seen a "pro" but anti containment yes, worse you are the only ones to have demonstrated .... with the result of outbreaks of the virus in 2 buses.
believe it or not, i find them cave the world that gathered in the buses. i am not against the mask inside. i am not against the vaccine. ** i'm for the measures that make sense. ** the curfew and the other measures mentioned above are not one of them. the world like you is incapable of nuancing, and as soon as you show any sign of opposition, you are immediately labeled as a * nasty anti-vax trumpist pro-qanon anti-mask conspiracyist. *
that said, even though the bus move was baseless, some of the demo's demands were legitimate.
> so yes i hope with all my heart that it is in the top, just to be able to come and drink your snowflake tears unable to take on themselves even in front of a meme
do you think i'm crying? i live my life. i argue on the internet, but i have other things to do than bawl at a meme. on the other hand, i rather denounce the toxic atmosphere of this sub which absolutely seeks to blame a noisy but insignificant minority in order to console themselves for their own misfortune. and this is not the first time that a post like this has surfaced.
i don't need funny memes with overused templates to make my point. and for real, i don't care about the same, the problem is more the hypocrisy of this sub who actually believes that the conspirators are the cause of all their problems.
no, i am pro-common-sense.
take your karma!
always made fun of karma. is it really good for something?
i present a temporary ban on those posts. let them make their own subreddits.
there is a documentary released in 2003 on the village, its daily life and its inhabitants!
well i was thinking for the next vacation, that would be cool, but google maps does not want to take me from gatineau, disappointment ...
pardon the name of the village is kangiqsuallujuaq not kangiqsujuaq
it might be a stupid question, but was this photo taken during the summer? is it snow all year round up there?
i've always wondered if it's possible to visit the far north like that, are there villages big enough to have small hotels or something like that? i know the plane ticket will cost me a lot but it's still in my bucket list of places to visit (this village there or another, as long as it's in the tundra).
i did schefferville, aupaluk, tasiujaq, and in nunavut i did iqaluit, cape dorset and pangnirtung.
not yet been to this one but my job will get me there one day ...
i lived 6 months in iqaluit if anyone has any questions i can make an ama mic
how is life there? what is going on there, what are people doing?
it makes me want to see the thing again!
ah am ah am
what makes people think "this is a good place to settle"? is it an aboriginal ancestral land? natural resources?
another world, i want to live there.
ah your wishes ...
the name is pronounced like the sound a quebecer makes when he tries to read a sentence in english ... without knowing english
my history teacher was taught at saluit
a good summer prof
here is the link to watch (about 28 minutes):
you have to go by plane lol
i don't think you needed a post, but here we are
for those who are interested, kangiqsuk is "the bay", kangiqsujjuaq is "la grosse baie" and kangiqsuallujjuaq is "la grosse criss de baie".
kanqchépascomençasecriça
hope your question isn't stupid because that would make us two bozos, but i'm also interested in knowing when the photo was taken?
there is no snow in june-september normally
no it was in early march, they have snow almost all year round except for 2 weeks in summer
yes, the villages of nunavik all have at least one coop or hotel to accommodate travelers. they regularly receive people who come to work temporarily and therefore need places to house them (healthcare workers, legal workers (judges, lawyers), government workers, etc.), so it's not just for the tourism. there is no embarrassment of the choice of establishment, and the rooms are often spartan and small, but it is quite doable in the villages of northern quebec / nunavik.
me, i went there for an organized trip so it cost less than for a single traveler. but, another solution would be to grab a job there; they are always looking for specialized people
are the russians still in charge of the hotel?
i only passed through iqaluit to go to work in igloolik for 2 weeks.
i don't live there and when i went we spent most of the time outside the city, in the kuururjuaq national park. so my information is quite limited.
ah am ah am
the canadian government forced them to settle there during the cold war. the inuit lived further south before.
we can't get there by cycle pist!?!?!
[removed]
there is snow there between late september and june.
> spartans
"this. is. kujjuaq." before getting kicked in a snow bank.
is it still ~ $ 1,500 for a return flight?
i would like it but i don't think my little family would appreciate my choice of location;)
ah ah am
as far as i know, these are places that were previously inhabited. relocation in the arctic is the government forcing families who lived there (in nunavik) to relocate further north, to even more isolated spots in nunavut, like resolute bay.
interesting, i wasn't expecting this answer!
but still?
do you know why?
pronounced kanjirh swalu djuak
the costs vary (let's say going to kuujjuaq is not the same price as salluit or ivujivik on the northernmost point), but yes, it's always in those waters.
i think i would be better off going north to the yukon for the same change of scenery.
i feel attacked
it's both funny, partly true, yet slightly offensive, and with a hint of ignorance.
first time that i hear someone speak of chalets in the corner of magog as being "crummy"
"le plan nord", "railway disasters", "precious oil" on anticosti island ... it must date from 2013, this card ...
liberal party of canada 😂 sa should include the plq too
it is quite true!
estrie > laurentides. change my mind.
anyone know what the shawinigan handshake is?
dekoi low iq
why racists in the suburbs of quebec city?
a little dated (with the reference to vaillancourt), but comical
i mean ... you make dung jokes when you're young but when you get older you start to like the smell. * spit on the ground and check his pigs out through the window *
it definitely smells of manure in lanaudière. my high school was next to a field.
i can't really comment on the rest of quebec other than montreal.
not including a reference to poutine for central quebec is missing an opportunity.
gentrification gang
imagine
\> montreal north
\>low iq
\> receive a ban
criss that i like it equality boys.
the trillions of mosquitoes just seems fair to me.
we could have put “bloodthirsty hockey fans” all over canada.
according to the map, i live in the '' smell of manure '' region. i can't say it's wrong ...
1. spoon players and alcoholism, * sigh * 😔 2. dont joke about inbreeding, i do it all the time and i've never had anyone give me bad luck because of it, often find it funny as much than me
charming fisherfolks
i'm glad to have one of the only positive stereotypes that i imagine
inconveniently located native tribe.  
harsh
outaouais: unilingual anglos in the pontiac and civil servants in gatineau. yup.
gold miners represent
west montreal is perhaps the most "canadian-multiculturalist" and the most "anglo-quebec-bashing" place in quebec, so that doesn't surprise me honestly.
don't talk shit about the island of orléans tabarnak
haha, good one! 😂
you know what they say, it's funny because it's true!
no, but seriously, a little self-deprecation (aka self-deprecation) doesn't hurt.
in the pontiac, the world speaks more english than french.
being myself aboriginal ... i laughed when i saw the x on '' land stolen from native '' with the mention '' hydro electricity '' written in large, almost over xd
i think it's pretty funny :) on the other hand, i'm not going to read the comments, it'll make me sad .... low iq !!!! it's horrible and i love it :) long live the co-bloods of which i am proudly part!
we can * technically * go further by car than what this map says ... on the other hand, you have to go through labrador (via baie-comeau -> labrador city)
it takes at least 30 to 32 hours to drive from quebec (so at least 32 to 35 hours from montreal), but it is possible to get to blanc-sablon only by land. 30-32 hours is longer to get to blanc-sablon than to drive to winnipeg! (around 25 to 29 hours non-stop from quebec)
lol i grew up there, people are more progressive, but the liberals "protect" them from french laws
1. spoon players and alcoholism, * sigh * 😔 2. dont joke about inbreeding, i do it all the time and i've never had anyone give me bad luck because of it, often find it funny as much than me
[shawanigan handshake]( 😂😂
aussi, rcmp "we dont know what happened".....then, now, forever 😂😂
i guess by native you mean native americans? when exactly is the term going to end when most of the rest of the population is native too?
[giant mysterious ring-shaped lake](
another such card
wow the curfew
thanks, i'm learning a lot.
knowing almost nothing of the other provinces (except by the bc), i would be curious to see the same exercise for them.
lol love that the whistler is on this map.
i like living in the low iq zone
ok, i'll bite. what did the mayor of laval do?
[deleted]
inconveniently locates natives? maybe the whole map should be labeled racists
it's normal, people in your corner think with their feelings and their fists rather than using their heads. / jk
replace québécois by p'tits chats, and you'll see how well intentioned it is.
exact
same thought here ... the desmarais chalet is not too crummy 😂😂
dont forget corrupt mayor of laval. it must be more like 2012 or 2013. i thought this mofht have been funny, but it isnt. anglo downvote.
it's better like that, there are too many people pushing their agendas and opinions on politics 3/4 of the time the remaining 1/4 is the same on the poutine
1/4 winnie the pooh, 1/4 controversy, 1/4 poutine and
1/4 block majority
🤔 poutine 🤪
r/unpopularopinion
i don't even like poutine ...
it's still better than / r / canada
\ * cough cough \ * live the free poutine !!!
it's still better than the invasion of winnie or cats. it's more appetizing!
i too when i'm frozen i'm hungry for poutine ...
as it should be
as tradition dictates
but i love poutine
yumyum!
poutine, bye
[vegan poutine] (
russian bots are the ones that automatically position anything containing the word poutine
yep, i dream that we have a r / quebecfun with lightness because there are days when the sub is unbearable.
worse 1/4 château frontenac!
eat a poutine .... at château frontenac!
upvote 😍
you are banished forever
heretic! at the stake !
get out of here!
overrated.
there is a poutine for everyone, you just haven't found yours yet!
you know i've always been against guns, but now i think you made me change my mind
coming from ontario? ok
r/onguardforthee
sub canadian much less toxic. a lot less racists
point of view of a french. i read your sub a lot more lately, not knowing your politics and its characters, i did not understand and went my way.
and i really like this poutine battle recently, can't wait to come and taste my opinion!
château frontenack at 450 ° f
omg! when i saw the notification poper. i swear i went wrong! lol
i know, i know… i don't deserve to live on this land. that's why i learned to fly!
edit: notice… it's easier to learn to fly with less putin in the body!
it seems justified to me.
for the most part, yes. there are still a few artisans who make a decent poutine. the simplicity of the recipe is a double-edged sword in this case.
you might be happy to know that i don't disdain the said poutine. i try it all over the place. so maybe you are right!
you'll have to wait until we are enough to pass a law on the extermination of vermin. as with pigeons it's been a hundred years. in the meantime, i hang out with people who don't like star wars. at least they managed to infiltrate disney to buy lucasart and scrap the franchise. they are resourceful!
haha you will love my boyfriend
these lands ... these potatoes.
admit that the star wars haters made a big hit on this one
oof!
the french version of super mario galaxy also has a toad who speaks in quebecois joual!
edith: but i just noticed it's in the original language in destiny 2, pretty cool!
it would be funny a queb version of destiny.
drifter: "aweille guardian, go bank your christies with motes!" "
in far cry: new dawn, there is also a full quebecois character too (while the other characters speak french french)
it was really nice to see that.
epic! really it's perfect except for one thing: what is bonyenne? good female dog?
if you want quebecois in a game, play the messenger, totally written in quebecois and it's hilarious !!! and really good game 
animal crossing new horizons seems to have been entitled to a quebec location too! kat told me a few times that she made a new recipe for unemployed pudding.
in subnautica: below zero, there are characters with quintessentially quebecois names, and a slight accent, but no quebecois language in the game on the other hand. oh well, it's taken the same
really cool! was it a programmer who hid this in there?
in the same game, you can find poutine as an edible food too. i think they have something for quebeckers 😝
you will play messenger, there is a 100% quebec track
in motogp 2020, i had a quebecer on my team of engineers.
friendly (:
in assassin's creed 3, we can have quebec recruits! in iv, part of the present takes place in montreal, and we can visit a small part of quebec from the seven years' war in rogue!
edit: it's a shame that the québécois / franco-canadian characters speak standard french on the other hand (in the dubbing). i know games should be understood by everyone, but it would have been fun to hear a bit of the accent anyway.
hahaha, seeing this just after clearing the vault of glass with my clan is perfect timing. the quebec members of our team found it funny.
in rainbow six siege, buck has a big quebec accent too. i reload !!
i saw it literally a while ago, i believed zero that it was real
if i am not mistaken in one of the extensions of ark survival evolved, the voice of the robot that guides you is a girl from quebec!
there should be more video games with a french and quebec option.
there are a lot of video games made in montreal.
ah bin me old!
bonyenne de bonyenne by michel de tremblay of old badly twisted chair bar from the barn door to victor hugo from meat to female dog to jacques
in the game man of medan the action takes place in french guyenne, but the voice actors come from quebec without a doubt x) the accent is recognizable
hot stuff
nice find! myself, i am currently playing destiny 2 season of the splicer, i tend to read lore, but that i am still amazed!
question aside, those who have beyond light, how do you like the new expac?
i quit after season of arrival and vopir from quebec in there it gives me the taste to replay a little
if there are people who would like to play with a casual guy from time to time, i wouldn't say either, especially help me to get some exotics!
couldn't that be for real? i'll have to check after work ...
ah the princess, is very fine.
beaver shoutout in the french version of open season
in the french version of portal 2, weatley uses quebecois at one point as well.
most of the game is in joual. same goes for zelda phantom hourglass on ds.
in paper mario also they speak quebec
in zelda: breath of the wild too, if i'm not mistaken.
"oh well, fallen in the field!" "
would you do gambit you think haha
not for fooling around, but i don't think that a quebec version of anything requires adding coronations. they are already a little too lightly used in the quebec media in my opinion. the joual is enough for the translation to be funny to see / identifiable.
yes roger cadorette, his helicopter is called 《the big potato》. a legend
oh my gawd, i just checked the internet on the youtube pi c'est funny en esti! yer dubbed by vincent leclerc, seraphin for close friends.
even in the english version of the game he speaks with a very strong accent and french at times
i worked on it! i had to check the subtitle timings of all of his lines at some point, there were gems in there. fun times.
special mention to "let's see tabarnak, i'm on your side" when you shoot him
[roger cadoret](
best character in the game, he spanked me tripping every time i spoke
a way of saying bon dieu in old french
no, it's bonyenne, from the same family as baswell i imagine, fairly widespread seems to me.
made in quebec! a jewel
journey to the savage planet has tried the same thing but it is a little less successful. at least we have the voices of emanuel bilodeau and katherine levac immortalized in an interactive game forever.
i'm still waiting for the canadian release of this game in physical version (it's almost three years since the release of the downloadable version, in tabarnak!)
all nintendo games are translated into “canadian french”. either they take the international version and change certain turns of phrase or term for quebec where they have a translation 100% made for quebec.
nintendo got slapped on the fingers about 15 years ago with the french version of super mario galaxy by the ministry of culture, the oqlf and the uda. since then, they are a little more cautious with their translations. i find it a pity.
fred lachance and emmanuel desjardins? i didn't really hear any accent in the dialogues they had, but i found it really cool to see quebec names in such a famous game.
[deleted]
there are poutines hanging around in divinity 2 too
it's a game made by a quebec studio after all
unless something really big happens i don't think i'll see that in my life :(
well chosen template
no offense to anyone but i just want to know if i'm really the only one here who would vote no in a referendum? idk, personally i am quebecois as i am now and i would not feel more queb by separating. i feel like i'm missing something, since recent data says separatist sentiment has been waning and in the minority for some time.
[thanks, i appreciate the answers. i like to know the opinion of others on subjects important to them]
i was not big enough for the first 2. i want to vote for a third at the most criss.
honestly i have the impression that it is a matter of time before independence returns to the taste of the days. it's stupid but even if at the moment it's not the quote the idea is slowly picking up in popularity with young people. must say that the project must be updated because that of pq is worse, that's what makes that it draws less
i voted yes on the second, we got robbed.
i'm pretty sure the government made some new rules to make the discussion even harder
"yes but the second was stolen, gomery commission in support, by your party in addition!"
the second is not valid and we won if we withdraw the vote of people outside quebec.
on a companion adventure, i set off towards the horizon ...
[
it would be necessary to start not being able to do some on small subjects before remaking one i believe, the citizen would find it more involved in the society too i believe. we don't even get there with small subjects, so big ones like this ... ish
easy example -> the 3rd link should be under referendum or the tramway of sth
as if ottawa was not going to sabotage a third referendum.
waste of time and money so never
me and all the immigrants will vote no, quebec will never become a country. take! din teeth collis.
monetary question: during the two referendums it seems to me that it was planned to keep the canadian dollar for practical reasons. in the event that quebec becomes a country, do you think there might be an interest in changing the currency (for example adopting the euro) or creating a new currency?
ontario has just separated from quebec.
i'm just going to say no because honestly there wouldn't be any significant enough gain + the majority will just say no
everything except another referendum.
old debates, old subjects ... the only thing that changes is the level of education of sovereignists.
are you the one who pays? whenever! is there a nation in the world that gained independence by democratic vote?
i outlasted your pq, who would be running the ship now? you're not going to be happy, but i believe all languages are important. not just one. you are the only team, yes you win, but you are the best of one and not of all. the separatrists don't love me. my grandfather pure wool, my mother pure wool, me pure wool, but i live in canada, not in quebec. sorry, not sorry. you can't even see me, and i hide amongst yous. good luck of ref 3.
carry out a coup d'etat instead.
ottawa is never going to accept the result of any referendum in favor of independence, stop reviling this stupid trap.
sincerely curious, why do you want it? i am not canadian. not even a permanent resident. but i can only wonder why the quebecois want to separate?
yes i understand that there were a lot of discussions about the quebec language and identity in the past but i have the impression that everything has been settled. after all, why talk about it nationally and suddenly the media and english speakers don't talk about it anymore?
big as a genre ... a pandemic?
the more frequent the pandemics, the more the idea of controlling our borders will gain ground.
100% agree. and it's sad
even if it happens, you will not pass.
decision on bill 21 arrives today
how old are you, if you are in your fifties or younger, it is very likely that you will see another one (not necessarily successful though)
those who vote no don't spend their time saying they want a referendum, but the status quo is fine with them. that's why we never hear their voices.
the goal is not to feel more quebecois, we are already a community distinct from the rest of canada. for the most part we would just like to be able to live as this leader ourselves, and not leave part of our resources / decision based on good sense in ottawa because the elections are coming in 2 years ...
for some of us, 'feeling québécois' is not enough. for many people here politicized and versed in history, it is even complete nonsense.
we are in a confederation dedicated to our assimilation since the 19th century where the values of durham still exist, which is likely to succeed within two generations at the current rate. our people have historically suffered from foreign domination and the roc remains hostile to us in many ways, ranging from popular bigotry to systemic opposition to traditional quebec demands. a lesson that we should have fully integrated after meech, after the betrayals of trudeau father and so many other incidents.
it is a simple matter of basic pride to mean; "we assume our sovereignty now. we can still be your partners on a thousand issues, but we will now always have the right to say no when we do not agree, because we are your equal and not your vassal." there would always be tight ties out of geopolitical and economic necessity, but as in the european union, we would have our veto and our own institutions, our sovereignty. we would not have to bow our heads and accept federal supremacy systematically. we would no longer be their political equivalent of a battered woman who resigns herself to accept her place.
you wouldn't be any more québécois if we were sovereign, but you would have something to be proud of. to be part of the generation that will stand up for our future, our language, our values. this is really fucking nothing, and it would unlock a lot of doors for the future.
let's just say that those who would vote no “don't care” about the issue today. there are quite a few separatists who still cling to the debate today.
same thing for me, until now the idea did not charm me that much.
now with the pandemic, the idea of being in control of our borders appeals to me more and more. with climate change, it will become even more important. i feel less and less inclined to let canada manage this according to its interests.
i would vote no. it's not easy to explain myself when i know that my explanations will be downvoted in tabarnac
i am an immigrant but i consider pomal more quebecois than anything else ... i listened to the loco loco when i was young but still not a separatist
i will vote no too, the misery it will cause, i want stable economy
nah man, there's no way i'd vote yes.
i love my quebec, but criss that i'm a brother to be quebecer / canadian ... :)
already it is quite difficult to change certain things in the government (see the reform of the ballot for example), having two complicates matters even more. we are not even screwed to have a single tax return for both levels ...
our image on the world too; it would no longer be a canadian prime minister who would go to the international community on our behalf and that of canada, but our prime minister / president / emperor who would speak and represent us.
i understand that economically we would put ourselves in the wrong, but my personal arguments are more social.
just imagine if in each election, we could vote for the party we want instead of either:
1. being so afraid of a potential referendum that nothing else matters
2. absolutely wanting a referendum then nothing else matters
despite the hundreds of very good reasons, just this one is in my opinion one of the best for achieving independence. quebec has blocked politically without any social project for the past 30 years because of such nonsense. have you thought about what we would have been able to accomplish in 30 years if we no longer needed to worry about the survival of our culture every day?
[deleted]
i was not even born :(
the worse things will go in the world, pandemic, climate crisis, the more the idea of controlling our borders will gain ground.
me this is what is making me change.
indeed, even if qs represents itself as an independentist and strongly aligned with socio-economic inequalities, which is strongly supported by young people. i think the major factor will be the climate crisis. given that 3/4 of the parties in quebec have 4 lines of bullshit max which means nothing for their plan on the environment. and that the federal government has demonstrated its incompetence and inaction on the same subject. this is likely to be the primary factor given that quebec is the idealistic image of a modern green country. just my opinion
why seperate when you are already in a system that allows democracy to prevail, this system protects you.  you are majority, if you leave canada, you will only be one.  en politique, un partie devient plats quands c'est basser sur une idée seulement, separe, separe, separe,  aaahhh, quoi d'autres?
yeah he did with the clarity act passed in june 2000. now a clear question and a strong majority is needed for any discussion with the federal government.
sure, but it's not by shooting it in the toes and blaming "ethnic votes" that we will get it next time ...
i would have done well to stay at home and make wooden chairs.
hey another terrebonnien !!!!
> waste of time and money so never
you would save time by filling out only one tax return, and you would not pay two levels of government, therefore, less taxes.
it is indeed very rare. but one of the most elegant processes was the czechoslovak velvet divorce, but again here, no stupid referendum to do it.
> is there a nation in the world which obtained its independence by a democratic vote?
[happy reading!] (
props to the folks who designed the ad. it's simple, timely, straight to the point, and even someone unfamiliar with us gets the message. i also find that it is not too "fellow kids". really no worse
among bus
this bus is sponsored by raid shadow legends
amogus
sick.
hahaha, this is a great ad!
well let's see!
seriously, trois-rivières their social media team is just sick! their meme are always sua coche!
i'm french and it always makes me laugh (in a good way, i love you) to see that quebecers speak french more french than french!
"face cover" is so weird at the same time, but so beautiful for me ...
would have been even better with kevin / kevun
their !
getoutofmyheadgetoutofmyheadgetoutofmyhead
⡯⡯⡾⠝⠘⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢊⠘⡮⣣⠪⠢⡑⡌ ㅤ ⠟⠝⠈⠀⠀⠀. ⠡⠀⠠⢈⠠⢐⢠⢂⢔⣐⢄⡂⢔⠀⡁⢉⠸⢨⢑⠕⡌ ㅤ ⠀ ⠀ ⡀⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⡀⢂⠡⠈⡔⣕‣⣻⣕ ⢀⠠⠐⠈⠀⢀⢂⠢⡂⠕⡁⣝⢮⣳⢽⡽⣾⣻⣿⣯⡯⣟⣞⢾⢜⢆⠀⡀⠀⠢⣬⠂⠀⣀⠂⠀⣀ ⢿⡽⡾⡽⣝⢎⠀⠀⠀⢡ ⣿⠀⠀⠀⢂⠢⢂⢥⢱⡹⣪⢞⡵⣻⡪⡯⡯⣟⢠⠡⣻⡽⣯⡻⣠⠠⣻⡽⣯⡻⣪⑰ ⡎⡗⡝⡎⣞⢽⡹⣕⢯⢻⠹⡹⢚⠝⡷⡽⡨⠀⠀⢔ ⣿⡯⠀⢈⠈⢄⠂⠂⠐⠀⠌⠠⢑⠱⠱‘⠱⠱ ⣿⣽⠀⡀⡊⠀⠐⠨⠈⡁⠂⢈⠠⡱⡽⣷⡑⠁⠠⠑⠀⢉⢇⣤⢘⣪⢽⠀⢌⢠⣿⢾⠀⢳⠌⢾⠀⢳⠌⠠⡱⡽⣷⡑⠁⠑ ⢉⢃⢭⡲⣕⡭⣹⠠⢐⢗ ⣿⡗⠀⠢⠡⡱⡸⣔⢵⢱⢸⠈⠀⡪⣳⣳⢹⢜⡵⣱⢱⡱⣳⡹⣵⣻⢔⢅⢬⡷ ⣷⡇⡂⠡⡑⢕⢕⠕⡑⠡ ⢂⢊⢐⢕⡝⡮⡧⡳⣝⢴⡐⣁⠃⡫⡒⣕⢏⡮⣷⡟ ⣷⣻⣅⠑⢌⠢⠁⢐⠠⠑⡐⠐⠌⡪⠮⡫⠪⡪⡪⣺⢸⠰⠡⠠⠐⢱⠨⡪⡪⡰ ⣯⢷⣟⣇⡂⡂⡌⡀⠀⠁⡂⠅⠂⠀⡑⡄⢇⠇⢝⡨⡠⡁⢐⠠⢀⢪⡐⡢ⅲ⡊ ⣿⢽⣷⣿⢽ ⡗⢃⢮⠱⡸⢰⢱⢸⢨⢌ ⣯⢯⣟⠸⣳⡅⠜⠔⡌⡐⠈⠻⠟⣿⢿⣿⣿⠿⡻⣃⠢⣱⡳⡱⡩⢢⠣⡃⠢⠁ ⡯⣟⣞⡇⡿⣽⡪⡘⡰⠨ ⢐⢀⠢⢢⢄⢤⣰⠼⡾⢕⢕⡵⣝⠎⢌⢪⠪⡘⡌⠀ ⡯⣳⠯⠚⢊⠡⢡⢂⠨⢪❻ ⠁⡂⠔⡁⡢⠣⢀⠢⠀⠅⠱⡐⡱⡘⡔⡕⡕⣲⡹⣎⡮⡏⡑⢜⢼⡱⢩⢮⣯⢟⢀║⢂⢀⠱⡐⡱⡘⡔⡕⡕ the
well let's see, it's all suspicious
amogus
[deleted]
ok 
i find it funny
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⣤⣤⣤⣤⣤⣶⣦⣤⣄⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⣴⣿⡿⠛⠉⠙⠛⠛⠛⠛⠻⢿⣿⣷⣤⡀⠀⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣼⣿⠋⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⣀⣀⠈⢻⣿⣿⡄⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣸⣿⡏⠀⠀⠀⣠⣶⣾⣿⣿⣿⠿⠿⠿⢿⣿⣿⣿⣄⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⠁⠀⠀⢰⣿⣿⣯⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠙⢿⡄ ⠀⠀⣀⣤⣴⣶⣶⣿⡟⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿⣿⣆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣷ ⠀⢰⣿⡟⠋⠉⣹⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠘⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣦⣤⣤⣤⣶⣶⣶⣶⣿⣿ ⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠹⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿ ⠀⣸⣿⡇⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠉⠻⠿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠿⠿⠛⢻⣿⡇ ⠀⣿⣿⠁⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣧ ⠀⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿ ⠀⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿⣿ ⠀⢿⣿⡆⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⣿ ⠀⠸⣿⣧⡀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⠃ ⠀⠀⠛⢿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣰⣿⣿⣷⣶⣶⣶⣶⠶⠀⢠⣿⣿⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⣽⣿⡏⠁⠀⠀⢸⣿⡇⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⣿⡇⠀⢹⣿⡆⠀⠀⠀⣸⣿⠇⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢿⣿⣦⣄⣀⣠⣴⣿⣿⠁⠀⠈⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠏⠀⠀ ⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⠛⠻⠿⠿⠿⠿⠋⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
if you are interested in the possibility of karma post on r / amongus with a tite translation: p
> * william was not the impostor *
??? remaining impostors
when the imposter is bus😳
le sus bus
get out of my head and come back never get out of my head and never come back outside of my head and never come back out of my head and never come back
if tlm decides one morning to get back on the bus without a head covering .. the driver blows a fuse! game over
hahaha good use of a meme. and that affects young people quite a bit. except that the young people will say "ark c bin cringe".
damn i don't know what it is among us .. i'm getting old.
amongbus
their
it's been so r / fellowkids.
“william snaps outside after curfew hours. william is too wack ”
amogus hahaha funny 🤪🤪🤪🤪🤪🙏🏿😭😭😭😭😭😭😅🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
the joke was funny before but now it's repetitive and overused.
it could be inclusive with a name like dieu-merci jean-baptiste, and ... uh ... oops ... well no, there are some who would have complained about racism because it would have as a message that certain minorities carry no masks.
right?!
matriculesexe28 was expelled from the bus
he was a great joker
mvp username
start now for free
⠟⠝⠈⠀⠀⠀⠡⠀⠠⢈⠠⢐⢠⢂⢔⣐⢄⡂⢔⠀⡁⢉⠸⢨⢑⠕⡌ ㅤ ⠀⠀⡀⠁⠀⠠⢐⢠⢂⢔⣐⢄⡂⢔⠀⡁⢉⠸⢨⢑⠕⡌ ⣫⣆⡂⠀⠀⢐⠑⡌ ⢀⠠⠐⠈⠀⢀⢂⠢⡂⠕⡁⣝⢮⣳⢽⡽⣾⣻⣿⣯⡢⣟⣞⢀⢠⢜ ⣗⢗⣽⢽⡯⣿⣽⣷⢿⡽⡾⡽⣝⢎⠀⠀⠀⢡ ⣿⠀⠀⠀⢂⠢⢂⢥⢱⡹⣠⢞⡵⣻⡪⡪⣠⣻⡽⣢⡯⡯ ⠀⠀⠢⢑⠠⠑⠕⡝⡎⡗⡝⡎⣞⢽⡹⣕⢯⢻⠹⡹⢚⠝⡷⡽⡨⠀⠀⢔⠡⢠⡎⢈⠈⢄⠂⠂⢄⠂ ⠐⠐⡡⡹⣪⠀⠀⢘ ⣿⣽⠀⡀⡊⠀⠐sus⡁⠂⢈⠠⡱⡽⣷⡑⠁⠠⠑sus⢇⣤⢠⣪⢠⣽⠀⡀⡊⠀⠐sus⡁⠂⢈⠠⠑sus⢇⣤⢠⣪⢽⢀⠀⢳⠐⠐⡡⡹⣪⠐⠐⡡⡹⣪⣽⠀⡀⡊ ⢽⣽⡺⣨⢄⣑⢉⢃⢭⡲⣕⡭⣹⠠⢐⢗ ⣿⡗⠀⠢⠡⡱⡸⣔⢵⢱⢸⠈⠀⡪⣳⣳⢹⢜⡵⣱⢱⡱⣳⡹⣵⣻⢔⢅⢬⡷ ⣷⡇⡂⠡ ⡑⢕⢕⠕⡑⠡⢂⢊⢐⢕⡝⡮⡧⡳⣝⢴⡐⣁⠃⡫⡒⣕⢏⡮⣷⡟ ⣷⣻⣅⠑⢌⠢⠁⢐⠠⠑⡐⠐⠌⡪⠮⡫⠪⡪⡪⣺⢸⠰⠡⠠ ⠐⢱⠨⡪⡪⡰ ⣯⢷⣟⣇⡂⡂⡌⡀⠀⠁⡂⠅⠂⠀⡑⡄⢇⠇⢝⡨⡠⡁⢐⠠⢀⢪⡐⡜⡪⡊ ⣿⢽⡾⢹⡄⠕⡅⢇⠂⠑⣴⡬⣬⣬ ⣆⢮⣦⣷⣵⣷⡗⢃⢮⠱⡸⢰⢱⢸⢨⢌ ⣯⢯⣟⠸⣳⡅⠜⠔⡌⡐⠈⠻⠟⣿⢿⣿⣿⠿⡻⣃⠢⣱⡳⡱⡩⢢⠣⡃⠢⠁ ⡯⣟⣞⡇ ⡿⣽⡪⡘⡰⠨⢐⢀⠢⢢⢄⢤⣰⠼⡾⢕⢕⡵⣝⠎⢌⢪⠪⡘⡌⠀ ⡯⣳⠯⠚⢊⠡⡂⢂⠨⠊⠔⡑⠬⡸⣘⢬⢪⣪⡺⡼⣕⢯⢞⢕ ⢝⠎⢻⢼⣀⠀ ⠁⡂⠔⡁⡢⠣⢀⠢⠀⠅⠱⡐⡱⡘⡔⡕⡕⣲⡹⣠⡠⢀⡑⢑⢑⊂⢑⊂⊂⢝⠎⢻⢼⣀⠀ the
i had never heard of face covering before the pandemic, i don't know why it became the term that institutions use for "mask".
quebecer who did high school here:
that's not the thing ...
the french park their car in a car park on weekends.
quebecers park their tanks in a parking lot on weekends.
we do not put the french words and anglicisms in the same place, so we see the straw in the neighbor's eye, but not the beam in our eye ...
kayvun
⠟⠝⠈⠀⠀⠀⠡⠀⠠⢈⠠⢐⢠⢂⢔⣐⢄⡂⢔⠀⡁⢉⠸⢨⢑⠕⡌ ㅤ ⠀⠀⡀⠁⠀⠠⢐⢠⢂⢔⣐⢄⡂⢔⠀⡁⢉⠸⢨⢑⠕⡌ ⣫⣆⡂⠀⠀⢐⠑⡌ ⢀⠠⠐⠈⠀⢀⢂⠢⡂⠕⡁⣝⢮⣳⢽⡽⣾⣻⣿⣯⡢⣟⣞⢀⢠⢜ ⣗⢗⣽⢽⡯⣿⣽⣷⢿⡽⡾⡽⣝⢎⠀⠀⠀⢡ ⣿⠀⠀⠀⢂⠢⢂⢥⢱⡹⣠⢞⡵⣻⡪⡪⣠⣻⡽⣢⡯⡯ ⠀⠀⠢⢑⠠⠑⠕⡝⡎⡗⡝⡎⣞⢽⡹⣕⢯⢻⠹⡹⢚⠝⡷⡽⡨⠀⠀⢔⠡⢠⡎⢈⠈⢄⠂⠂⢄⠂ ⠐⠐⡡⡹⣪⠀⠀⢘ ⣿⣽⠀⡀⡊⠀⠐sus⡁⠂⢈⠠⡱⡽⣷⡑⠁⠠⠑sus⢇⣤⢠⣪⢠⣽⠀⡀⡊⠀⠐sus⡁⠂⢈⠠⠑sus⢇⣤⢠⣪⢽⢀⠀⢳⠐⠐⡡⡹⣪⠐⠐⡡⡹⣪⣽⠀⡀⡊ ⢽⣽⡺⣨⢄⣑⢉⢃⢭⡲⣕⡭⣹⠠⢐⢗ ⣿⡗⠀⠢⠡⡱⡸⣔⢵⢱⢸⠈⠀⡪⣳⣳⢹⢜⡵⣱⢱⡱⣳⡹⣵⣻⢔⢅⢬⡷ ⣷⡇⡂⠡ ⡑⢕⢕⠕⡑⠡⢂⢊⢐⢕⡝⡮⡧⡳⣝⢴⡐⣁⠃⡫⡒⣕⢏⡮⣷⡟ ⣷⣻⣅⠑⢌⠢⠁⢐⠠⠑⡐⠐⠌⡪⠮⡫⠪⡪⡪⣺⢸⠰⠡⠠ ⠐⢱⠨⡪⡪⡰ ⣯⢷⣟⣇⡂⡂⡌⡀⠀⠁⡂⠅⠂⠀⡑⡄⢇⠇⢝⡨⡠⡁⢐⠠⢀⢪⡐⡜⡪⡊ ⣿⢽⡾⢹⡄⠕⡅⢇⠂⠑⣴⡬⣬⣬ ⣆⢮⣦⣷⣵⣷⡗⢃⢮⠱⡸⢰⢱⢸⢨⢌ ⣯⢯⣟⠸⣳⡅⠜⠔⡌⡐⠈⠻⠟⣿⢿⣿⣿⠿⡻⣃⠢⣱⡳⡱⡩⢢⠣⡃⠢⠁ ⡯⣟⣞⡇ ⡿⣽⡪⡘⡰⠨⢐⢀⠢⢢⢄⢤⣰⠼⡾⢕⢕⡵⣝⠎⢌⢪⠪⡘⡌⠀ ⡯⣳⠯⠚⢊⠡⡂⢂⠨⠊⠔⡑⠬⡸⣘⢬⢪⣪⡺⡼⣕⢯⢞⢕ ⢝⠎⢻⢼⣀⠀ ⠁⡂⠔⡁⡢⠣⢀⠢⠀⠅⠱⡐⡱⡘⡔⡕⡕⣲⡹⣎⡠⢀⡑⢑⢑⊂ⓑ⊂⊂⢝⠎⢻⢼⣀⠀ the
so to u / s0m4b0dy
guys, i think i saw blue going into a conduit
amogus
always have some guy making a completely off-subject cringe commentary on minorities, racism, women, trudeau, wokes or whatever is wrong with you.
straw man when you hold us
did you know that there aren't just white people called william right?
i would like to hear you on the word "feminicide", just a question of completing my bingo of the day.
you forgot the / s
and you can have a free champion, arruda the tart shooter
i never thought i saw jerma on / r / quebec
note: "it sickens me!" is always negative, even in quebec.
stetching!
more like “stékeurant”
you could add a 3rd column in english
"it's the shit" et "it's shit"
[deleted]
as an immigrant, it took me a long time to assimilate:
"i'll do it soon." vs. "i've done this soon."
for the second i would rather say "it's disgusting".
it reminds me of the "i condom" meme. if anyone knows how to find him…!
edith: [found it!] (
i would rather say it's disgusting, or it's disgusting for "disgusting"
"it's terrible"
it's mardy crunch
"it's amazing" would also work.
do you want to see a picture of my kids?
oh come on. delicious, it's "c't'écoeurant!" while disgusting is "c'tu enough disgusting ?!" it’s not the same!
did i hate that sickening positive use.
nah nah nah! it's the english who will tell you that your dish is delicious even if they don't like it, just to be 'polite'!
[les bons petits pains gumbo!](
what i hear, flipped.
"it's disgusting !" = "this is crazy!"
stecorating
this moment that win
astheure which side are we top?
well specified
but "je t'écoeure" is often explanatory, synonymous with "je te niaise".
viarge!
hahahaha exact
there's a finnish comedian who dissects ["shit"] ( and ["ass"] ( in all their glory
this is sharp to the bone!
not related, make the wind, frankly, what i mean is that it's the fun at the end and then it's sharp to the bone
rap-rap-reports moé-zen!
the sometimes is particularly mixing
it breaks the joke a bit except
my mother says "it's disgusting" for the first one. lol
"c'est dég en criss" is the quebec version
it just lacks "i have my condoms"
or as they say in france "it's not terrible"
indeed
"it's incredible" has both meanings in simplified french though.
we could use both in both cases
it matters to you.
eh?
more like "i'm harassing you" / "i'm pissing you off"
sometimes sometimes means earlier sometimes sometimes means later
it is sickening that
po si pire
no, that annoys me.
this is the third comparison
this is a third comparison
[first] (
[after] ( aventure_pas_f%c3%a2ch%c3%a9s_santé_avec_le/)
we don't dislike the same kind of person i see.
yeah yeah neno
especially never heard i disgust you as being explanatory and in the first person.
rather used to talk about what others are doing, which is harassing and pissing off people.
style "s't'un disgusting screeching" "screeching that he disgusts me" "he doesn't stop disgusting me"
saying "i disgust you" sounds a lot like "it's just a joke!"
exactly as i heard it, "don't shock yourself, i'm sick of you that's all!"
* if you get an erection that lasts longer than four hours, contact your doctor immediately as the condition requires medical attention to prevent damage to the penis. *
i can't see the word superb without hearing it in mr. giroux's voice. superb!
go read the comments of the original post, it's respectful and refreshing to read.
in french, not bad.
tab… they had to get their supplier to rush… by calling bergevin: hey how do you spell it in french? "
wow i'm gonna need one! where did you see that?
i did not expect the comments on an english speaking sub to be so wholesome.
go bring that cup home boys!!
perfection
wow i just listened to a radio cover hell v'la 15min 😂.
unless you're a masochist and you're going to be controversial
yes i noticed the same thing, / r / hockey in general is still very respectful for a subreddit of this size.
toronto that everyone likes to see lose, winnipeg with the bastard from scheifele, vegas who plays dirty without ~~ the referees ~~ chris lee does not react ~~ nt ~~ and finally the lightning with their salary cap stick for kucherov
all of the canadiens' opponents have been unfriendly on some level. they are the protagonists this year and almost everyone wants to see them win
someone put a link to get it:
[the source] ( comes directly from a staff member (massage therapist).
honestly, the quality of the trolls leaves a lot to be desired. otherwise, we have friends from calgary who are with us. that is refreshing in tabarnak.
hope it's not just because the mods look good.
i would never think i would see that honestly. it warms my heart
you have to give price back what belongs to him, but the ch defense has also been really effective in reducing the number of shots that go to price. it was a great team game yesterday.
carey price, our messiah and our savior.
i'm going to get slapped, but i have to say it. it seems to me that since the 80s it is always the goalkeeper who makes the canadian !!! not a hockey fan but quebecois anyway, there are other teams with unnamed goalkeepers who perform. why in montreal if we have an ordinary goalkeeper the entire team is shit not even sure to make the playoffs?
/end rant
matthews and marner didn't "do anything" during the series. we must give credit to ducharnes, danault and gallagher. the game plan worked really well. danault on the big stakes and / or against matthews, wins because he is good on the faceoffs, returns to the direct bench.
gallagher and danault shut down matthews-marner so effectively that if they can do the same with the jets and avalanches guns, they may have a chance 🤞
congrats on the series win guys,
one love from ny
scarey price
carey price aka very nice
i don't want to be the equipment attendant. it must be shit transported that pocket.
was lucky him
no jokes they play like this all along and i might still be surprised
> you have to give back to price what belongs to him but the defense of the ch was also really effective in reducing the number of shots that go to price.
yesterday, yes, but that was not the case the whole series.
possibly chiarot's best career game, at least of the ones i've seen
not even just defense, danault completely neutralized matthews and marner, and he did the same against mcdavid in the regular season.
danault is arguably the most undervalued defensive forward in the league.
edmonton have a game plan built around mcdavid.
yesterday our game plan was created based on carey price. impossible to play the same game with allen or almost any other goalkeeper.
because we have never had a gm capable of building a real good complete team since serge savard
i mean, it's not like it was a shut out in the end.
i think they can beat the jets. it will not be easy but it is fair i think. the third round on the other hand ... it looks bad.
to be fair, they only won against toronto ...;)
serious we were getting eaten game 1 to 4
our game plan has been to rely on the goaler for 50 years.
edith: actually, since the start of the club. vézina, plante, dryden, roy, theo, price.
not just yesterday lol.
fair enough! thank you, this is the first time that i have been given an answer that makes sense.
if the jets pass there will surely play against the avs. they get screwed like hell if that's the case.
> the third round on the other hand ... it looks bad
round 2 is just to earn the right to get blown up by colorado.
honestly, after this round i believe in everything, beat the jets, the avs, the knights whatever
yep, except that plante had doug harvey, jean béliveau and the richard brothers in front of him, and dryden had guy lafleur, steve shutt and the big 3. i like them, chiarot, danault and our 3 kids aged 20-21 , but we're not talking about the same caliber, let's say.
even halak when he was there was a solid wall. when they made the choice of carey price and let halak go, it was a big controversy. in the end we made the right choice, but still.
halak. you forgot ... halak stop
not really. it was really yesterday. the other games they played with a game plan from a team that has a good goalkeeper. yesterday was a game plan for a team with the best goalkeeper. i don't know if you follow hockey a lot but the difference is substantial
imagine if the avs take out their legacy jersey on the other hand .... it would be nice to have a mackinnon jersey from the nordiques.
imagine blowing up the colorado with a nordiques vest.
[deleted]
i like your optimism. nothing is impossible.
i remain optimistic but i do not have too many expectations.
except that the leafs were only favored by toronto sports network and sportsnet.
otherwise, the real favorites are colorado, vegas, tampa, and boston. dark horse islanders.
the ducks are at the same level as the islanders i would say
faque 5 teams will win the cup?
true.
the verb to enjoy does not only relate to sexual antics. think again. but, here it is still a bad translation
special mention to "multipurpose onion"!
there are people who have better recipes than me. 🤔
it seems to me that more often it is plant
enjoy
water
orgasm my tank is beautiful, orgasm my house is beautiful ♪
as they say in sweden, örgåsmbord ...
anything can be a dildo if you're brave enough
orgasm so loud that i cry
it is certain that if we choose to restrict a word to a unique definition that can give strange results, for example i would like to know how op interprets this article of the civil code:
** 1854. ** the lessor is bound to deliver the leased property to the lessee in good repair of all kinds and to provide him with peaceful enjoyment of it throughout the duration of the lease.
excellent! finally there is even a mistake in the title.
10/10 for the translation
i had seen the same error on a packaging of reusable coffee pods a few years ago.
orgasm my onions are beautiful
new! sex toys to grow in your garden. cucumber 🥒, squash 🍆 and now the chinese onion balls 🟡🟡🟡 ... ish ... too many images in my head there, there ... 😂😜
where should i plant them?
where do these onions come from?
"versatile onion"
practical in esti that, a versatile onion.
secret ingredient in food wars anime.
a spanish speaker who says "bulb" sounds like "vulva", so enjoy!
what's an onion-shaped ass? it's such a beautiful ass that it makes you cry.
enjoy!
i bought this exactly today at the grocery store, and i thought gardening was going to be fun this year
hahahaahha lol
versatile onions! to be fair, all-purpose onion is also a strange statement.
a hole in your armchair? use that onion!
😂
is it more correct to say "take advantage" in this context? sorry, french is not my mother tongue!
water, enjoy
you can put it in a sauce, a burger, it can mow the grass, fix a hole in a wall ...
haha excellent i had not seen!
probably a polish onion
you have to rub it on the eggplant
seed * enjoy water
orgasm my dog is fun!
orgas' my office there are papers!
my wife always treats me with a machete. she said to me "i want you to machete this, i want you to machete that"
you just have to be careful because anything can become a supository by accident.
(˵ ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°˵)
( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
an iga in lévis
yes, it is already much better! we could also say "taste".
the packaging says "100% canada", though. "polyvalent", here is a translation of "all-purpose".
we just found kevin! what's your lemonade recipe again?
exactly what i was looking for.
the joke was in the "comes"
savor
rejoice!
thank you!
it's ridiculous in both languages. i have never seen an onion sold for burger only.
seed, corn, sweet potato.
i'm / r / whooshé :(
so for your questions, i'm going to eat them, so they'll probably come in my mouth ...
here is
this is what coca-cola uses
it's just onions there. we're not going crazy either. i have never heard anyone say "i welcome onions!" or "ah, onions. hallelujah, sacrament!"
i enjoyed mr. blanchet's injection of actual substance in his answers. how do i vote bloc in ontario?
..ahem..
i was very pleased to see mr. blanchet add substance to his answers. is there a way to vote for the bloc in ontario?
his intervention is perfect here. the debate enraged me so much. crisse i look forward to voting for the bloc in advance tomorrow morning.
the cbc reporter who asked the questions to mr. blanchet clearly showed her opinion on the subjects of her questions and the same when she commented on blanchet's exit in the clip here. at best she is telling half-truths to advance her agenda and i find that terrible about the state corporation when it comes to elections ...
i believe that even blanchet did not believe that colonialist contempt still persisted so much in the roc.
i lost all respect for hasan abi. i liked that he brought and defended leftist ideas in the united states. but there, to see an american leftist who spends half of the debate basing on quebec by calling us a racist
my wife is an anglophone from ontario and the two have looked at it at the beginning and we were like “wtf!” in relation to the facilitator. the media “consortium” that ran the evening clearly had an agenda.
c'était intellectuellement malhonnête de la part de sachi kurl. you can't ask suggestive questions in a debate about politicians who wish to represent us. it's their platform. she decided that they were discriminatory laws and expect yves francois blanchet to do what? 
ask about the laws if you think it's relevant, but not in such a way that the answer will necessarily have to denounce what is implied and then blanchet is out of the time to truly gives his idea. it was really bad journalism. no self awareness about the format of their debate it seems.
another proof that the rest of canada just does not understand the quebec reality.
blachette is a legendary esti
long live the free quebec.
eventually we will leave for real, they will eat their stockings.
it is not the block that we need, it is independence.
but hey, 50% of franco-quebecers are still stubborn in believing that the canadian federation is the best option.
and after rebel "news" tries to capitalize on the situation by giving him a clearly made question for him to speak out against the roc ...
same thing for me .. i have lived in toronto kek years, and now in alberta .. i would vote block again if i could 😂
but i thought that the francophones in the rest of canada and the acadians had been abandoned to their fate because it was more expedient for us in time?
serious this question, first question of the debate, no neutrality.
i thought about it this morning and found the perfect analogy: it is as if i had asked the conservatives the following question:
we know that alberta is an ecological disaster and that you only want to enrich people now by killing the next generation, what are you going to do?
to ask this question would be to totally ignore albertan freedom. i do not agree with what alberta is doing, but i would never dare to ask such a direct question tinged with my personal opinion.
in addition each of the questions of the debate is revised by a committee ...
seriously ... can we have our referendum cry for the separation of quebec? it's been more than 25 years since the last referendum, we are really at the point that the results are no longer at all representative of the current population ... i am not even a fan of the quebec bloc personally and i am anglophone, but even in that must have been at least 10 years since i considered myself to be "canadian". quebec bashing is more and more popular and more and more aggressive, i am really confused why there was no new referendum considering that most of the current work force was either not even alive in the last referendum or like me, 10 years too young to vote lol
"why are you voting bloc?" this question asked so many times on this sub. that's why. we need a watchdog.
i think autoplay in reddit is crap.
do you have a link to what the host said?
osti from the land of mustard. long live the free quebec!
blanchet has been asking the question about bill 21 for two years, and for two years he has limited himself to answering "waaaaa the question is nasty!" ". a fine “defender” of law 21 that. it's almost as if he knows that raising the indignation of his base pays more politically than engaging in a rigorous argument.
as i said yesterday in the thread, here is what blanchet could have answered:
“i deny the premise of the question.  the purpose of the laws the quebec government has adopted, which are legitimate laws, is not to discriminate.  their purpose is to include.  these laws create a society where everyone is treated equally, where quebecers of all origins and all beliefs can live together without worrying about government agents acting with the appearance of bias, or the reality of bias, against them.  quebec has adopted a different approach to this philosophy of inclusion than canada, as is our right as a nation.  we simply ask canadians to respect our differences the same way they claim to respect everyone else’s.”
if it was a question that came out of nowhere i could understand him to have such a bad answer, but it is the same question that he has been asked for years and all the heads of the bloc could easily have come up with a much better answer than that even if they had looked at the question with a minimum of seriousness.
but no. he confined himself to complaining that the question was insulting, as if after two years of debate his mediocre answer would help to make anything clear.
blanchet is less interested in protecting bill 21 in a rational way than he is interested in using it as a * wedge issue * to rage his base against the canadians, and it's a shame that he decides to contribute to the discourse. deaf rather than educating canadians. and that's a shame.
i am not saying that the question is not biased, but she said that the law does not discriminate against quebeckers.
it was not necessarily his place to criticize the law, but you can criticize a law without criticizing quebeckers as a whole. it is a law that has been reversed; there are quebecers who are against it.
also, one of the hosts, rosemary barton, personally sued the conservative party during an election campaign for doing something that all the other parties are doing too. the lawsuit was summarily dismissed. hard to believe after that that this host is not biased against the conservatives ...
[deleted]
it is impossible to claim that bill 21 is inclusive. it is insulting the intelligence of people to say that there is nothing discriminatory about it.
poor little pout. if you don't want to be called racist and xenophobic, stop being racist and xenophobic. not too complicated the case.
"the other debates were made in quebec that was done in canada"
pardon mr. blanchet, what does that say on your passport? hmm?
if there was no “snap election” i would have been of voting age, and i would have voted now to be in ontario squealing.
divisive and exaggerated.
u / savevideo
u / savevideo
and what are his impressions of the 4, islamophobes on his benches?
what does he mean with the acadians?
usually, quebecers have a better reputation for denying francophones outside quebec and i don't remember hearing anything about acadians in the debate.
it doesn't change anything because as she said so well at the beginning, it's an illegitimate debate in abenaki territory. the facilitator specified it well, one could elect the president of the congo with elections in quebec and it would have as much to do with electing “ministers” in “canada” (false imaginary country invented by mentally insane people in the territory not ceded)
during the "live" thread on the debate of the heads of radio-canada on reddit, i got mega downvoted because i had said that trudeau is not a quebecer because in my opinion, if you are a french-speaking federalist , you're not from quebec.
thank you, monsieur blanchet, for proving my point.
with that, aweye my little traitors, downvote me 👌
our laws have been described as discriminating against the people, and it is law that was written by members of parliament elected by only a quarter of our population. stop shouting the victim's shit and listen to the community that beckons you.
if you play the victim card almost all the time like blanchet does, you deserve a cheap shot. quite the contrast to the kid glove treatment he got from pierre bruneau from tva in the other french debate. i miss the days when there was bloc leader who acted with more class and humility such as duceppe.
ok, let's say i'm playing devil's advocate. because i don't think i heard a good rebuttal to this.
since the law on religious symbols mainly disadvantages non-christians (sikh, muslims, jews) many of whom are from other races / ethnicities and that at the beginning we wanted to make an exception for the crucifix, symbol of a religion much more among whites, is there not a racist character to the law?
there is also the accusation of losing ndp seats, once the party has had a brown leader who wears a turban.
every time this douchebag spoke he had to mention quebec. 
that’s the problem with this party, they truly only give a shit about quebec, and the french speaking portion of canada. 
loved how the moderator called out the racist and xenophobic actions of the party.
she was just asking how laws like bill 21 aren’t xenophobic, and mr blanchet wouldn’t answer that. like we’re supposed to just take it cuz it’s quebec.
can someone tell me why minorities should listen to white people on how to dress?
quebec is in canada, deal with it and stop strengthening the divide. the host was shit, but i am a quebecker who finds that laws 21 and 96 are discriminatory. the laws are not the people. the 74 seats in the caq and the 10 in the pq (the two parties that supported the laws) were chosen by around 2 million quebeckers. so the decisions taken within the government represent only this 2 million. the other 6 million people are either against it or don't care because it doesn't affect them. the host was 💩. the laws to discuss are discriminatory. two things can be true.
ah fuck off blanchet with your crocodile tears. his mischievous behavior ruined the debate from the day before yesterday. you can't be offended when you get the same treatment again.
worse speaking of insult, he accused, without proof, a minister of having links with terrorists.
quebec is a "secular nation". 
you pass a bill that exclusively targets a religious group, making it impossible for said group to follow through with a very innocuous yet mandatory expression of their religion. 
that's the definition of discrimination. 
of all the very fair and well articulated points blanchet made, there is no wriggling out of this.
law 21, xenophobic law.
when you want to play victim ...
a big echo chamber here.
update: full of downvotes, no substances. if there are counter arguments, don't be embarrassed!
the guy seems really sensitive when the host starts going through all of the pretty tough questions to each candidate and challenging them.
it was like, yeah you say that, but you didn't do anything and you're a big hypocrite, why?
stop crying and besides, the way he talks is just really divisive. one in quebec and one in canada.
they are all in canada, stop living in a fantasy that does not exist mr. blanchet. we voted no twice.
bloc québécois is quite embarrassing to constantly act like a victim.
you can always create the bloc ontarien for the next election and collaborate with the bloc quebecois.
actually... i always though that "the bloc" should have renew itself as a "back to province power".    
albertan don't enjoy we impose them "canadian vision", bc does not either and so on. quebec is not the only one who have a problem with the power grabbing by the federal apparatus. you know federal tax income was created to finance ww ii.    
a more direct example... we can't force railroad corporations to fix theirs rails (aka lac-mégantic tragedy) because it's federal juridiction. ecological power is provincial juridiction but port are not. so port don't need to comply to provincial laws. that's kinda weird when you think about it. i delegate a power but when said power applied to my direct apparatus i refuse that the said delegated power applied.   
in the end, the quebec don't seek that much to split from canada, the quebec seek to be able to take decision for himself without always needing to get back our own money from federal government (and doing so being accused by albertan to live of albertan taxes... ).    
the federal game to play province one against the other one is toxic and is going nowhere.
find someone in quebec who votes lib/conservative, and trade votes. he votes bloc you vote for his party.
in some neighborhoods in ottawa there are bloc candidates if i am not mistaken. i saw some when i lived in the region anyway.
we are waiting for you in quebec. always need open-minded people ready to participate in the project of society.
[deleted]
it is easy to understand how ancient civilizations saw gods and spirits everywhere. seeing the ground move like that must have made a lot of stories and legends.
imagine being under the influence of a substance, a badtrip nasty
oh damn the bowsprit is waking up!
i have often seen this video but i did not know it was from quebec! cool!
damn, nature you scary
so our nature is beautiful, we are really lucky to live here, there are so many great deals a few minutes from the cities!
tabarnak!
is this chelsea?
i knew i wasn't throwing crazy calis
wtf?
it’s aliiiiiive! it’s aliiiiiive!
isn't it super dangerous to stay in the zone?
or??
was waiting for godzilla to bust out
yé where the sound?!?!
cool wind
morning wind
by gaia, does it come from quebec? i saw it several times without ever realizing it was local.
yes
you might be surprised to learn that people weren't more silly 5,000 years ago. people who believed they were ghosts back then would still believe they were ghosts today and people who know they are the roots would have known it back then.
mmmm, i would feel myself connected in tabarnak and i would lie on the floor for a little 3 to 8 hours.
haha this is the first sign that your mush trip is starting.
no need for substance
amazing comment
dame nature, you scary.
is there any reason to think it is?
why chelsea? it's a small random town beside gatineau lol
the roots are not deep and under a carpet of moss, when the wind blows in there the roots make the moss rise. at least that's the explanation i would see.
i have a camp in haute-mauricie, we have a rock cap on the lake, i see trees that have grown in like 3 inches of earth on the rock!
although this is the first time that i see quebec mentioned in a repost of this video.
yes. i am a forest engineer and i slacken for a lot less wind. i hope they had the camera on a tripod because there it is, it's a matter of time before it all falls to the ground.
camps in public forests are not acquired rights; people sign a lease with the government in order to be able to occupy their land for the long term without becoming the owner. usually a 99 year lease.
i agree with you on that. t'sé, there must be a reason why the civilizations of the bronze age were already familiar with advanced mathematics and earthquake-resistant architecture.
quite frankly, i think the level of development in the copper age (or chalcolithic) was grossly underestimated. among other things, there are predynastic artefacts in egypt that defy understanding.
the sophistication of this metallurgy you! [ chauffage( mishmar-hoard-1.jpg)
it is especially that this information was hard to share in this time. yes there were educated people who knew it was roots, but they could not easily communicate it to the masses. meanwhile, rumors and stories were catching on.
it's like the myth that people thought the earth was flat before christopher columbus. educated people knew the earth was round. the others didn't need to know that anyway.
no one said it was a need
dame nature you're sexy
i thought i recognized the rock 😂😂
i am in the forest and i have trees that have grown on the rock. not even earth, there must have been some before, but now the roots are around the rock to reach the earth. mythical the world here.
hey i drop that the same since you seem to know it a bit, but i live in trois-rivières and i would like to go overlanding / off road and i see that on the road to la tuque, just after the parc de la mauricie, it becomes public land. is it legal to go for a walk in the trails in this bottle?
exactly that,
. the layer of soil above the rock is very thin there is hardly any sand. it is about a woody layer in very great majority taken with rock fracture. she looks not ben thick a maximum of 1m. this is why in northern quebec, where these soils are found, it is not uncommon to have avalanches. in winter, as soon as the moss breaks, it picks up the whole forest
now in english please
already 4000 years ago, we complained to customer service when we did not receive the quality ordered. r / reallyshittycopper
> t'sé, there must be a reason why the civilizations of the bronze age already knew advanced mathematics
[...](
the math was not very advanced ... it was good with triangles and squares but you quickly went around.
i will add that it is not a need actually but it is worth living if the inclination is there. long live the exploration of the mind, whatever the means!
you miss 100% of the shots you don't take – wayne gretzky – michael scott
yes, on public land, everyone has the right to go on the forest roads. just make sure you don't pick yourself up on a zec or an outfitter.
then there is the possibility that people who have cabins on public lands are a little unhappy to see you there but you are 100% in your right to walk there. i would just tell you to stay away from the camps out of respect but otherwise it's legit.
interesting! on our lake there is a mini-mountain of rock, a year there was a landslide, the moss broke off and all that came to slide down to the lake. it made a lump of dead earth / moss / trees and the trees even started to grow again in the following years.
[here you go](
the roots aren't very deep and are possibly on a thin moss bed directly on rock. when the wind blows the trees it pulls everything up.
fit for a rick roll
gollum illuminati, get out of this body!
i know what you mean but it's a bit generalizing.
thanks a lot for your answer ! are there maps available online to see the perimeter of zecs and / or outfitters?
i burned a couple of neurons trying to read this
is it bad that i understand scotland better than quebec in their respective text? 😳
ouian tu peeg? hin?
cigarettes are such a cliché. it was true in the past that quebec smoked more than the other provinces, but that has changed for a long time. there are still plenty of english people who think we smoke like fireplaces.
the person who made this meme has never met a quebecker in his life.
it's cringe (pronounced "fear i")
hahahahaha i love it
does anyone actually say "j'ai want?"
yo my dear quebecois comrades. you understand?
ffs ... can someone read this?
😥
at least 40% of "yes" in each county gives a beautiful red map and a unanimous "fook no"
how to speak quebecois 101:
step 1 put on french
step 2 put on a coronation shitload
step 3 ???
step 4 profit
is the auld aliance relevant here? a lovely trangle - scotland, quebec and france
now kiss.
personally i find that french quebecois is closer to irish english 🤔
moé who was having a beautiful day asti
not false
wonderful, but so sad at the same time!
more ball
the 7
what..?
enter james mcgill.
/ r / quebec is the only place that still posts polandballs.
lots of quebecers are scottish and irish :) 👍🏻
typically 4chan.
no one is a national m&m ...
well done whoever found this.
as a native man, i will say this.  scotland could not have been a nicer place to visit.  they were genuinely open to learning about my culture and edinburgh is still my favorite place in the world to go visit. i've made lifelong friends there. 
my visits to quebec on the other hand taught me that they really seem to hate all my people with a passion.   the french are not shy about sharing their distain for first nations people.
ok, i thought it was just me ...
it is because they take french from france instead of french from quebec.
"you're a pig" maybe?
it has nothing to do with it. it's the same as the beret-baguette-bottle of wine. it is stereotypes not related to the french in france that are put on quebecers.
hmmmmm a good cigarette
i think it's by proximity to france maybe. the french still smoke a lot.
hey ... i love quebec, but ... i'm from somewhere else, qc smokes a lot more than minnesota. there is nobody there who smokes, i literally know 1 person in my whole life in minnesota who smokes. it's like every third person here, and i don't even count the french from the plateau
last i heard (which for me is like 10 years old ...) quebec does not smoke as much as new brunswick, but still more than the canadian average.
how has it changed since?
i practically had a culture shock going to england a few years ago because of the amount of people smoking cigarettes there.
i have lived quite a bit all over canada and quebec smokes a lot more than elsewhere, sorry to peter ta balloune.
it's polandball, they mix the target language with english for the (english speaking) audience to understand.
nope
shit i grabbed the queen of spades
mard i said out loud that i grabbed the queen of spades
apparently not.
quessé ça esti legault announces a possible deconfinement pi y brings us back the referendum that table caliss
> the french are not shy about sharing their distain for first nations people.
well, you probably got some well-deserved hate back after you told us bullshit that was anglos told you about us... we have total disdain towards people who do that.
i've seen crees whine about requiring french to hold a given job as being "racist" (never mind that no cree could ever get any kind of job without speaking english).
i am québécois and sorry for the way you were treated. we have an old racist law here called « la loi sur les indiens » and it’s just a shame. 
please know that we are not all alike and that i love you. just for your information, québécois are canadiens not french.
as a quebecer, this image makes me very sad and it is quite true that we sometimes feel alone. glad that we are still there and strong despite repeated attempts at assimilation.
long live quebec french.
>as a native man
i think you are confirming his point lol a bit. i don't understand why you have to explain the indian law to him, he must know what sacrament is.
[deleted]
it is a "bad" fr english versus an english with a strong accent, it is not surprising to have a hard time understanding. although ... the worst for me was newfoundland labrador. wtf does "world war b'y" mean?
you understand?
a good treat
the real common quebec word is a toppe
that’s because québec is the cultural heart of canada. 
anytime someone mentions poutine, “if you want real poutine, go to **québec**, montréal has the best!”
anytime someone mentions maple, “**québec** has more maple farms than anywhere else in the world!”
anytime someone mentions ice fishing “great ice fishing in **québec**” (this is also a letterkenny reference when everyone says “québec” differently, which is a joke about how nobody knows how to correctly pronounce it)
anytime someone mentions winter tourism “you’ve got to experience winter carnival in **québec** city!”
anytime someone mentions population density “most canadian live in ontario and **québec**”
anytime someone mentions politics “whoever wins the election come down to how **québec** votes”
anytime someone mentions history “the original canada began along the saint lawrence, which is now known as **québec**. montréal was the de facto capital and trading hub, and largest city in canada until the 1970’s when most of the anglos left the province and moved to toronto”
anytime someone mentions language “most canadians speak english, but there are large populations of francophones in **québec**, new brunswick, ontario, and even some community out west in alberta”
anytime someone mentions military “the vandoos of the 22nd regiment in **québec** are legendary!”
anytime someone mentions green energy “provinces like **québec** are leading the way forward in renewable technologies, especially companies like hydro **québec** which don’t just supply power to themselves, but exports it to the us”
i could go on and on, but it’s hard not to mention québec when it’s such a cultural leader in culinary, arts, industry, and more, with a large chunk of our population living within the province, and holding influence on all surrounding provinces, especially the maritimes. 
and that not counting anytime western canadians make some snarky remark about the province, despite never visiting or meeting anyone from the province. i think they’re jealous of how much influence and power québec has over the rest of canada. something the oil cowboys wish they still had.
the image is from 2014, apparently wiki words according to oc.
[source](
where does the data come from?
we really get them ...
it must be a constant in this world: look at the word that is spoken the most in the united kingdom.
honestly, being myself from france, it amazes me the number of countries where the word most often written is "french", i did not expect too much.
otherwise, nice the united states. change nothing.
>north korea: south  
>south korea: north
majority block
are the chinese a fan of the dynasty series? / s lol
we really live in the head of the roc * rent free *
another post on this sub with the same image talks about wikipedia. can we get the source since the two contradict each other?
normal; all quebeckers do is talk about themselves and all the roc does is whine about quebecers.
um ... am i the only one asking serious questions about the methodology of this card?
first it comes from wikipedia, and given the fact that the terms are all in english, it probably comes from en.wikipedia.org. it is certain that they will have removed words like "the", "a", "with", "who", etc. but the most common term will, no doubt, be determined by a line drawn in a rather arbitrary way between "common" and "uncommon" words.
i just did a quick version on the "canada" article. here is what i got for the most common words. ** quebec ** is in 25th place, after ** government ** and tied with ** british **; ** canada ** is the first name, in 5th place.
    1     830 the
    2     561 of
    3     443 and
    4     308 in
    5     235 canada
    6     198 to
    7     163 a
    8     136 is
    9     116 the
    10     107 canadian 
    11      96 with 
    12      90 by 
    13      76 percent 
    14      74 as 
    15      63 for 
    16      62 are 
    17      59 canada's 
    18      55 on 
    19      52 has 
    20      44 in 
    21      43 from 
    22      41 its 
    23      39 government 
    24      38 united 
    25      36 quebec 
    26      36 british 
    27      35 was 
    28      34 french 
    29      33 federal 
    30      31 which 
    31      31 over 
    32      30 at 
    33      29 indigenous 
    34      29 country 
    35      29 an
according to this the french rule the world not the english 😜
quebec rules 🤙
putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin putin poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine poutine
france and spain: world war ...
first time in my life that i hear the word province associated with algeria, someone would have more explanation of the context?
well done the countries where the word is "island". very informative.
i don't know about your sources and how true it is, but i find it really nice and enriching the debate that you started in tk! i'm learning a lot about canada as well as quebec. thanks for the post!
i want to see the version of this map with just determinants
are obsessed with it
curious that it's not the word "the" in more places than that.
in canada, it is “quebec”, and not “independent” or “free”. funny here.
hold on ... the lybians would be remorseful ..
les gens au denmark: "denmark denmark denmark"
it seems to be the haunting problem of every country.
in south korea, the search for north. in north korea, the search for south.
yeah that's right bitches
are these the words in english or are they words translated from their original language?
lol seems like your culture is alive and well. just keep saying your own name repeatedly like a schizophrenic rapper and you'll be fine.
we see that for other countries creativity was gone
the country with “java” as the most used word needs to update with technology
>gaddafi
nice
i couldn't have said it better myself !
so you are saying that the rest of canada is actually a colony of quebec or canada as it was called back in the days.
québec was the centre of old canada lol so most our stereotypes and iconic things come from a specific part of quebec even now
peetty sure its just cause they hate us tbh
[deleted]
the best poutine isnt in montreal city boy*
i know this is the quebec subreddit so i won’t rag too hard, but this is a super quebec sentiment. there’s a lot of history and amazing places all over canada. quebec isn’t the cultural heart of canada, it’s just a province with a longer history, there’s amazing ice fishing all over canada, but the best in in the territories... manitoba has a deep history, especially with their métis people! the east coast fisheries supplied the world with fish for years. ontario has the most multicultural city in the world and the most beautiful natural spaces! the plains of saskatchewan or the old growth of bc, the history of settling the west and the hardships it brought. also winter tourism is almost synonymous with the west coat. again, not to rag, i love this province, but there’s a lot more to canada than quebec
it still changes a lot of things to know that these are the most used words on wikipedia and not on reddit ...
[citation needed]
good question, i took on mapporn and i did not confirm the source sorry
difficult for them to accept that a smaller people want their freedom
it is interesting all the european countries which have the word wolrd.
anecdote time:
i settled deep in the mountains of brazil from 2014 to 2017. really hollow, less cities. kind saguenay in quebec.
i used my french with all my strength to talk to the young people. they love french and france. they find it romantic. there are small french restaurants everywhere, french-speaking theaters, cultural events.
english? no one knew that. there were a few young people obsessed with becoming rich youtubers and going to the states, but it was really unusual.
it's probably the spacing that disqualifies the word, otherwise it would definitely be number 1
they are fans of the imperial dynasties with a cloak of totalitarian communism.
they hate us 'cause they ain't us
this is practically what i thought
r/terriblefacebookmemes
[deleted]
hahah, that's not wrong! : d i should be using this line someday.
ok boomer.
it's been around ten years on facebook, it's proof that content doesn't count on reddit.
it's sad because it's true xd
* i'm in this photo and i don't like it *
i read the title on the tune of "at the beach" by * 3 gars su'l sofa *.
the other time i read that people don't usually take drugs to make up for the pain in their lives. faik i imagine i have a problem.
reminds me of another one that said, "do you need help?" they replied "yes! but i came here insted" !!!
it looks like bullshit
you ketchup
it's the weekend. those who spend their working day on facebook aren't working today, so they bring their finds of the week back to reddit.
beer with ketchup when? we already have the chips, it wouldn't be crazy.
trou à shawi made a tomato gose (which they named michelada in honor of the cocktail) and it was really good. a purer version of a beer-tomato juice. not a big fan of gose but it was worth it. (we must distinguish the still independent pub in shawi from the bottled and auctioned beer that doesn't taste much since molson's takeover).
cool thx !
personally, putting people in seats like these, mainly because of their social situations in the past, is the cancer of society today .... and it is not new. ..
take for example;
guilbeault to culture ...?
garneau at transports ...?
joly who was in the culture ...?
they are candidates for trophies who often do not have their place in what they represent ...
but it saves!
... and i'm sure it's going to be more and more normal ...
[deleted]
lol why do we even need a gov gen? are there just to live in a huge house and choose the art on the walls (i still love that michäel-jean had her daughter painted staring at her phone)
i propose to be the governor general in his place thank you for spreading the word
as they say "it looks like it was a crazy criss"
[deleted]
this what they doin with the canadarm smh
can someone tell me why in the throne speech she did not have a québécois accent, but more like an anglophone who speaks french? is she native french-speaking?
immanent justice.
phew .... that is quite steep .....
in some areas she might improve things like  the military - security- anywhere kicking ass in a full metal jacket kind of way seems still acceptable.
she was not the boss on the international station, nor at nasa, that's the difference.
she's the kind of 'first class' who makes a good soldier, but when she steps up in rank you discover all her inner ugliness.
imagine being stuck with her in space ?
x
it is the epitome of politics turned into pure popularity contest, entirely devoid of criteria based on * competence *. i'm afraid human nature is against us, wanting to change anything. :(
> joly who was in the culture ...
it is absolutely incredible that this woman is a minister. to fall from his chair!
i hope that the reason that guilbeault is at heritage is to give him a * crash course * in politics in a position where he cannot get too screwed up before putting him where he really should be: in the environment.
garneau to transport, it's not crazy. even notwithstanding the fact that he was an astronaut, he is also an engineer and a former military officer, in addition to having been chancellor of carleton university and president of the canadian space agency. without forgetting that he was also minister of foreign affairs. with this kind of course, difficult to say that it is a trophy without more, all the same. we have had many ministers with much less competence.
for mélanie joly, i have nothing. maybe it's just that justin trudeau trusted him after having him as comms chief?
> garneau at transports ...?
the commute will be quickly in ta 'in rocket.
garneau has a somewhat strange _track record_ in transport. i guess that makes sense, but in one file that i was very concerned about (drones) he came out with a regulation that was just awful at first.
for example, it prohibited flying a drone within 100m of any _animal_, without defining the term. a zealous policeman could have given you a ticket while you were flying your drone in _ton_ deserted field, because he saw a field mouse within 100m.
exactly, instead of having good speakers and who will win, we could you have competent people instead?
i'm afraid what the us went through with trump is going to be the norm.
we don't care about the competence of the candidate he was popular before we will take him and win votes.
i predict the arrival of reality tv "celibrities" in politics within 10 years.
i can't wait to see their slogan: you voted for me in show x now vote for me in politics!
or i won od with us you know me well now i want to win the post of prime minister!
or even at star academy have my performing art show now that i am an expert vote for me in charge of culture.
we should elect people to specific positions, not just as members of parliament.
for example, you should be able to vote for who will be in a particular department and the candidate should convince that she has the qualifications for the position.
exactly.
same business case. ceo where i work earns 17 million per year. yes, super charismatic, not surprised that he is going to win the race but it is total bullshit.
urrrrgk
remindme! 5 years "is julie payette mayor of montreal? - / u / mymoney3"
i mean .. "turned into a bunch of shit" you're basing that 100% on allegations with no reliable facts.
i have no doubt she went too far, but it was basically putting someone so overqualified in a useless government job.
she's a human being, she has moved our society forward a lot more and had a positive impact by being a role model for young women than anyone in this sub, i think she deserves a minimum of nuanced look. yes, the action must be condemned, but to openly treat it as a heap of shit and sully its heritage before even having the official facts, i find it a little free
yes, but she quickly learned that being french is a drag in canada ...
yes, but she was probably trying to speak french radio-canadian.
bof, birds of a feather flock together ...
[deleted]
i don't really know her, is she that bad? i can't find anything on the web, i'm legit curious
[deleted]
> i hope that the reason that guilbeault is at heritage is to give him a * crash course * in politics in a position where he cannot get too screwed up before putting him where he really should be: at the environment .
i doubt. to the environment he would try to apply real solutions that would displease the party.
i'm not sure everyone's ready to get screwed twice either. he won because people believed he would be in the environment.
well no, they put guilbeault in a nowhere hole because he's a media personality and has an "environmentalist" background, so it looks good to the electorate and puts another liberal ass in a chair. they cannot put guilbeault in what would seem to be his field of expertise, the environment, because the canadian government, whether from any party whatsoever, must be very nice to companies. that destroy the environment. because putting a "hippie" associated with greenpeace at the ministry of the environment would scare investors more than a yuppie who comes from corporate finance ...
putting guilbaut into the environment is either asking him to sell his soul by defending pipelines or it is asking the government of canada to completely change its platform.
so they put him in another unrelated ministry and the two keep up appearances. here is.
it may be quite spatial
mosquitoes are also animals and, while they are there, crabs too ...
i have seen worse. 25 years ago, there was a big controversy with diving, and initially, the government asked the rescue society to take care of it, and they laid down a regulation which banned diving outright everywhere in quebec. fortunately, it didn't happen ...
garneau scrapped commercial aviation under the 703.
i will be messaging you in 5 years on [**2026-01-22 23:12:01 utc**]( to remind you of [**this link**](
[**1 others clicked this link**]( to send a pm to also be reminded and to reduce spam.
^(parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](
*****
|[^(info)]( reminders)](
|-|-|-|-|
she was charged with 2nd degree assault in 2011 while living in maryland.
not every joe bloe could find a government janitor job with such a background, but it sounds like it's okay to represent the queen of england! being an astronaut forgives everything!
when it's repeated allegations in different places and different times of her professional journey, i could understand some people not respect the person she is.
we can judge the person and his accomplishments separately. a person can be a douchebag in everyday life as well as being a talented actor or musician. same thing here
to say that she wanted to be mayor of montreal ... at least, as a secondary minister, she can't really do any damage. smile, repeat the tape, otherwise shut your eyes. pretty easy job!
[deleted]
it is squarely the definition of emptiness.
she only repeats key phrases on all subjects ... she plays well on tv for 10 second clips on the news, but she has no substance, no mastery of the subject.
she is a spokesperson who looks good, nothing more.
she looked nice ?! appoint the minister now! ;)
it's not all the elected fees that end up directly in the cabinet without going behind the bench before ...
as if a federal or provincial government had enough balls to stand up to the polluter lobby. now the tobacco lobby is coming to lick legault.
and the owner too, you better have a good signal range.
slow children playing. it's made for when your kid isn't the chewiest crayola in the box.
"children who play"
it's still better than the signs ["attention to our children, it may be yours"] (
slow down ** r **.
attractive.
they know how to write, anyway.
even replacing with a z, i think “wo menute” would be more effective.
ooof.
i slow down
you slow down
it slows down
we are slowing down
you slow down
they slow down
in the imperfect?
she was slowing down
in the past subjunctive:
that you have slowed down
in the present conditional:
you would slow down
i saw these signs in an alley near our home. the parents carved a "z" over the "r" to correct the error.
r/trouduction
whenever i read an ill-tuned "é / er / ez", i always hear it in my head with a big accent like "slowing down"
it's desired. we must adapt to the level of literacy of the people to whom these panels are addressed.
"eille bé !? kessé does that mean" ra-len-ti-sèze? "
slowed down chalice
in english, “slow children playing,” it can also mean that children playing are not very intelligent.
not worse! it is a human error in addition, an automatic corrector would not have made it this one
on the subject of translation, i really recommend deepl, it beats the majority of the so-called bilingual world ey google translates flatly
or in good french: slow the fuck down
honestly fuck the flagships.
dollorama is destroying the planet with its cheap mard, couchetard is a pusher of cigarettes and candy, bombardier they are addicted to subsidies.
shout out for the mousetrap and children's sign mix
it is missing "it could be yours"
slow down
slow down ... ark
the english one is kind of funny, too. it makes it sound like they're slow children.
i slow down
you slow down
he / she / we slow down
we are slowing down
you slow down
they slow down
i do not understand the problem?
edit: i see now
i saw this in front of 2 houses in my neighborhood, i thought they had done or commissioned them themselves
children playing
wow i want 10 ... for the children of my anglo blonde.
the lil 'not quickly that jerk
another thing that irritates me so much at dollarama is the self-checkout pre-recorded message that says "thanks for shopping at dollorama!"
you mean to say that we do not write trunk ?!
i am english speaking, can someone explain it to me? it's because of the slowing down / slowing down or is there something with "kids playing" too ...
"last hour: a motorist distracted by a mistake in french on a warning sign hits a child playing in the street"
i wouldn't even be surprised.
it's at the camp where i work and i want to throw up every time i see him
omg that's what completely invaded my campsite ?????? i was going crazy
i want this, ironically!
serious when i watch and there slow kids!?!
i said to myself ah ok cool the children are not them… .. mentally so ……
in the outaouais, it's perfect, the chalets of the outaouais are invaded by ontarians who are not even able to say yes or no in french….
r'à-lentils eh!
i would have expected to read 《playful children》
dollarama wasn't sold to americans a haircut years ago?
dollarama = shit made in china that we don't need.
lol.... après tout, "you get what you pay for"
slower "er" oh boy.
it's easier to catch him when they're slow.
slow down ** serious wtf haha!
[deleted]
stop making fun.
i would have liked a "who jousent"
i saw a dollo with a different design but the same error ...
'child who play' .. frankly!
les hhhhenfants y jouse sti
the anglicization of montreal continues. / s
i don't want to be superstitious but we are in the process of jinxing solid. oops, i just made my superstitious.
okay, i'm trying:
2021 will be impressive.
yes n...
whatever happens, this season will remain danault memories.
"2021 will be a surprice"
time price
he knows how to support the price-ssion.
last time the ch made the finals, i was 4 years old, i don't really remember college. this is the first time that fans of my generation have had such a good run from our glorieux.
it will be a production cristi.
daddy's joke
or, luckily 2021 wasn't priceless.
in 2021, would you like a lemonade? because it squeezes the lemon on the spot, it is exquisite.
"i'm going to disneyland!"
i would say more that 2014 was priceless ... 😩
so, if i understand correctly, he prevents others from pricing the puck in his goal, right?
it's not a caprice that the ch wins the cup after 28 years.
shit i was coming to write something similar hahaha
haha! i thought about the same case
at the moment you can jinx yourself so hard that you jinx your jinx.
i hit wood every time i jinx victory!
kreider intensifies
i find that it is already better than priceless, it implies that we could lose it.
you had a little pricession anyway.
yeah because price less would mean without price
disneyworld *.
[deleted]
jinx not his jinx from jinx colice
as you are all original
as you are all original
this is where you realize how much poutine is an important and emotional subject for quebecers to see the shitload of comments that there was during the tournament.
there are bloody civil wars that have started for less than that.
i'm totally up for launching a crusade on the subject of the best poutine.
at the same time, victoria comes from "center-du-quebec", the region halfway between quebec and montreal, so it's the ideal compromise to bring quebec and montreal closer together.
plus, it's right in the middle of the poutine belt, so historically they have credibility.
i am from montreal and i arrive high expectations for ashton. it really didn't impress me :(
it's not vargeux ashton, lol.
the people of quebec city prefer victoria's poutine.
i haven't even tasted the one from victoria cheese factory and i'm sure it must beat the one from ashton.
it's not bad and it helps out very well, but it's clearly not the best.
any canteen the size of a woodshed that makes homemade fries> ashton.
one of the signs for a real good poutine is in the cheese. in quebec we are lucky because there are still cheese factories that produce cheddar cheese without modified milk ingredients, powdered milk, as some say. fresh fact, the difference between pure cheese kernel and modified cheese kernel is not that great, the average person could not tell the difference. where cheese made from milk stands out is during melting and during freezing. pure cheese freezes very well and melts very well even after freezing. cheese made from modified milk ingredients does not freeze very well, it loses a small part of its taste, but the most important change is when it melts; it does not become a nice blob of homogeneous cheddar, it tends to keep its shape noticeably while letting a little milk flow. the difference isn't that huge as you might think, but it's still there.
ashton, among others, buys modified dairy-free cheese for his poutines. this is a point that is often overlooked. this is also why, among other things, many snack poutines are loved by many, because these businesses are small enough to afford "real" cheese. the biggest chains have to be content to buy modified cheese, not only because of the price but also because for the quantity of cheese they have to buy, the smaller cheese factories that produce pure cheese cannot accept such contracts. .
thus, the bigger the business, whether it is the restaurant chain or the cheese factory that produces the cheese, the greater the chance that the cheese will be made partially from powdered milk. the smaller it is, we are talking about an independent restaurant / snack bar and small cheese factories, the more likely it is to have cheese made entirely from real milk.
i don't understand why we give credibility to a poll where the metro was a choice and where the basic idea clearly looked like a publicity stunt ...! +1 for our small regional canteens
i categorically refuse to approach an ashton since i came to quebec, but to say that the costco poutine can participate in the same tournament as ashton hurts my heart.
please. i was born in quebec and i grew up there. it's cute the first time ashton but we get tired quickly. i have just eaten a poutine from the fromagerie des basques, which is good to stick into the walls.
personally i found all the choices mediocre except victoria, as i have never tasted it.
the ashton poutine isn't bad, but by far the most overrated poutine i've tasted.
at ashton, it's a double ashton or nothing.
hahah, for those who haven't re-binge the office several times, this is the scene where she learns he's sleeping with his mother: d it's perfect!
we agree that the poutine of snack bar st-jean torches all those that were in the contest
the ash what?
in the end, all the tastes are in nature, or when you crave a fries and sauces with cheese, anything would do.
my girlfriend loves it pout mcdo while i gag reflex next door. i like it the same.
it's so difficult not to be disappointed with a poutine ...
for me, it takes a cheese that is heat resistant, never refrigerated and that makes squick ...
a solid, crispy, golden fries that has texture for the sauce to pound.
and the sauce ... salty, not sweet, consistent and not spicy. brown not orange.
fromagerie victoria has a cheese just ok, but soft fries and the 3 sauces are too watery and bland ... turn off ...
ashton is like a cafeteria poutine like ... i was very disappointed.
i loved the beautiful province ... but that's more what it was.
there remains the canteen x as everyone says ... his little potato shack ... and there, the conditions are met ... at least, i hope you will.
but it's been a long time since i came across a perfect poutine that makes me want to send someone down to eat it ...
so i refresh the poutine war threads, i look at the arguments and i think about my next poutine trip ...
thank you for your suggestions ...
yeah good ashton lost in the second round. not very significant since they just beat macdo, that doesn't mean much
am i the only one who finds ashton's poutine downright ordinary?
it's always fun to watch the community argue about something as subjective and intangible as personal taste. the best poutine is the one you prefer, there's no point in clinging to the validation of your peers.
2-3 years ago i would have voted for ashton no problem. but since then, i have often been disappointed. ultra liquid sauce. fried not half-cooked, the first one i ate on the spot in 2021 was so soft that i could have made some looted potatoes with it. when i was waiting for my order, an employee placed an order for a "well done fried" poutine, i didn't know that was an option now.
should do a round robin tournament.
ashton has a good base, all the ingredients are great, but it really lacks cheese. we feel like we're getting cheated a bit. so it gives an unbalanced poutine unless you pay for an extra cheese. much better value for money at resto richard at l'ancienne lorette! or the stratos, although more expensive
my thought exactly.
true
this format is different from the one i remember .. where is the guy with that smirk!
poutine at ashton is good if you've never had any other poutine in your life.
i was surprised that la belle province was the other finalist.
i still haven't gotten over that the poutine at louis (sherbrooke) did not compete, but that metro and st-hubert were considered ?!
you like your brown gravy hug and your cheese curds that constipates you, eh? it makes you live things in there
english please
[deleted]
everyone knows that the best poutine comes from home (a small canteen near my home that no one here has heard of)!
i found the choice of restaurants to shit personally.
it's the equivalent of finding the best player in the nhl but including players like tom wilson, paul byron and anthony duclair.
like the (non-civil) pastry war between mexico and france.
not complicated, everyone at dave & dan in st-liboire.
waiting for the “poutine belt”? if i had an award to give ... 🥇
people from sth spend their time hyping their poutine and in the end it's hardly better than mcdo.
i was really disappointed too.
the problem is the expectations created by the people of quebec (at my job in my case). there you go with great expectations for a 'trip' to quebec and it's expensive and disappointing at the same time. it's okay but not to tell everyone about it.
you know when to order your poutine in separate pieces (cheese on the side, sauce on the side) to make it better, that's not a good sign.
yeah. i'm from quebec and i really like ashton's poutine, but even then i recognize that fromagerie victoria has something extra. in a hypothetical ashton-victoria final, i would still have voted victoria.
this from fromagerie victoria is the best traditional poutine i have eaten in 15 years in quebec.
nice text. thank you for the context with the size of the contract required to provide a chain like mcdonald's ... but the local mcdonald's could push local cheese (where available) ... win win ... it would even encourage a customer to try different mcdo!
that of the costco at least is characteristic of the costco (the fries are not worse) and not expensive. that of the ashton is just ... average and rather expensive
it's all in the price. there is nothing wrong with the poutine at costco although i am not a fan of their style of fries. the cheese is real cheese curds and the sauce is ok. it's a decent sized poutine for $ 4.60 like. add a big hot dog with the liquor for $ 1.50 and you eat too much for $ 6. value is hard to beat. i'll take it before a regular $ 15 poutine in many other restaurants. but of course, i know plenty of places with excellent $ 10 poutines that i have a hard time finishing and that could surely compete with victoria.
it was all chains, if we started going there by restaurant we would not have come out of the woods.
dulton every time. i don't know what they add to the meat but it's okay
excellent shit post.
it was our first online course with the french intern. she wanted us to get to know each other. we spent 40 minutes in the meet talking to each other without the teacher.
pleasant.
so if i understood correctly, it's the digital equivalent of going to eat on friday noon on a terrace with the gang from the shop and after the 3rd pitcher you look at your watch and then 3:30 p.m. and you say to yourself: ah good luck, 2 more pitchers please?
do you come from the forbidden fruit?
am i not the only one to have had a hard time with fizz then?
chui with bell. what did i miss?
i'm with teksavvy and i manually changed my dns server 2 weeks ago because it was super slow (my 100mbps connection speed hadn't changed but a web page could take 5 seconds to load. ..)
in the end, it didn't really improve the thing so i concluded that the problem came from elsewhere with teksavvy.
... until this afternoon when everything suddenly returned to order after 3 weeks of sacrage after my computer ... concidence knowing that they use the videotron lines .. ??
fucking videotron which prevented me from bin watcher this afternoon. shame on you!
rip me who still has no internet
my class fell through lol
very good post poo
how long did it last? i restarted the modem and the router on the spot and it worked, it was afterwards that my mother asked me if my internet was working and that i understood that it was the entire network that had crashed .
sti i wasted my lte yesterday just because of this: /
sick haha
proof that you can have a weak 4th year french, and work in techno at vide étron ...
yes
fizz, distributel and ebox are all videotron resellers
my wifi did not work on my cell but perfectly on my laptop with fizz. at least i was able to continue working!
nop!
the same
one of videotron's dns servers crashed so it was almost impossible to use the internet for multiple people.
[deleted]
i don't want to contradict you there ... but i think you may be from the internet
proof that woosh.
fizz is owned by videotron.
ebox does not resell the videotron service, they use their network, and have their own dns servers. i had no problem with ebox during the outage.
c for its me i saw nothing i have my own dns and not pass 1.1.1.1 too
it's funny though that everyone came to r / quebec to tell us about it
i don't know that pentoute haha
do you think he's lying to us the torrieux?
i have the network but i have the exclamation mark ... i don't know myself in telecom
yeah i'm with ebox and had no issues either. very very satisfied with ebox, moreover, in every way.
you are right, thank you for the correction
i believe that ebox uses the videotron coax lines but nothing more.
yes and their dns servers always take 20ms to join (since the pandemic) so i pick myself up with a minimum ping of 50ms when i play.
otherwise their services are excellent
yeah, it wasn't long since the solution happened via sms to the job
fizz's router does not seem to have a default "fallback" in the event of dns failing. is it just me who is missing an important element, where this whole situation could have gone unnoticed with a configuration a little more preventive?
i dare not go that far, but it looks bad
i thought it was funny, if you are able to read or post on reddit, it is because you are connected to the internet beyond any doubt.
it is possible that your phone has just switched to 4g, so you can see the wifi error but the internet works anyway
ebox is really the hidden treasure of quebec today
it would be really amazing if their dns servers were affecting your ping - contact is only made the first time you try to contact a new address, and then the ip address is cached on your end.
if you think you really have a problem with their dns servers, try switching to google or cloudfare.
aka use google dns. i didn't see anything go by and i have videotron but the google nest wifi uses google's dns by default.
all agree
no i am using lte at the moment ...
yes it's probably not the dns but when i do a route trace the first two nodes it's them and it's 10ms for both.
1.1.1.1 this is the cloudflare dns
google is 8.8.8.8
not that it changes much, just a clarification. either one would have worked.
a good thing to do is to ping the 2 and take the lowest, your pages will load a few milliseconds faster.
that's what i meant, 4g and lte are the same thing
i am with cogeco and i solved most of my problems by putting the google dns. it's tempting to put cloud flare in 2nd ...
i have no problem with the mobile network, i have a problem with the home wi-fi network, it is still going on. i will try to reboot the router
google is slightly more fired for me.
in practice it's not really noticeable, but if i have a choice, just as well
dm if you really rush
i found, a malicious person had unplugged the internet cable from the modem, all of which is good that ends well haha. i have an sd card full of movies and series so it wasn't too bad
as someone from ontario, my opinion is: this is a good post.
am i out of the loop? is it a reference to other things?
this is what i do with unsolicited political opinions when i go to ontario. i like to visit vermont best for this reason, they don't know anything about our politics either but at least they do.
source: mémé liberation front
"ontarian requested"
all the other provinces think the same way. lol
ontariendemandé
me an american: yeah 👍
i can imagine everyone's reaction if something like that was posted on r / canada, but it was written quebec instead.
justin would be stuck to make a formal apology.
i feel personally attackedx
cringe ontario versus chad québec
i'm from ontario,  i speak french! i love this! but because i'm from ontario,  none of this matters!
[same energy](
the book of faces ... it's goat butt?
if we had a real real quebec okbuddyretard, that would be excellent material for that
maybe i misjudged my fellow canadians after all? 🤔
can i get the template of the mf doge (???)?
damn it
[
mdr but ontario is the "province of canada"!
[deleted]
quebec has to be the worst province
be careful, here you will be accused of anti-ontario racism.
thanks for sharing your opinion, but you’re from ontario... 🗑
[deleted]
about six months after the referendum, i went to nebraska for a few days for work, and a guy i worked with there gave me a formal interrogation on the totally atypical political situation for the kind of job. he was doing (a "pipefitter", a kind of hybrid between plumber and mechanic) ...
[deleted]
quebeckers rarely interfere with what is going on in other provinces unless they are forced to do so.
don’t take yourself seriously because we don’t.
you are the exception rather than the rule!
ahahah!
sorry, i don't have it.
you can always move buddy.
well, guess what: we're just like canadians.
what a stupid and generalizing comment, leave then lmao...
yeah, imagine having a culture
these nos
no question
[deleted]
that’s right! he seemed like a nice guy with a reasonable and valid opinion... what a shame, what a shame.
[deleted]
well, i'm still a bit interested in politics, but i don't necessarily know the details, so if i met someone from another country where something particular was going on and that person seemed to be in the least informed. i would take the opportunity to ask him a variety of questions (as long as i don't seem to bother him too much). was it that kind of interrogation?
i believe he meant that other provinces think the same about the opinion of residents of ontario,
he has.
every time someone says something negative about us we are playing the persecuted victims. sign of a people in decline.
ahaha! but why?
where did you get this picture from? you made it yourself?
i agree
i know, i'm parodying the sub.
[deleted]
my opinion.......switch our format of taxation to be like that of monopoly. put taxes on a total wealth equation instead of a total income equation.   
but i'm born in ontario.
event organizer dropping dead skunk next to radio canada reporter
this is the festival.
it's funny that the conspirators refer to the gauls of asterix (not the real ones, obviously their culture stops there ...) because the people of the village agreed to swallow a secret potion, known only to the druid ( and whose recipe is only transmitted from druid to druid) to protect themselves. the getafix potion (no, not raoult) is even more shady than the vaccines ...
we went through the same enthusiasm followed by disappointment. it pinched a bit.
a small village of irreducible morons ...
it's normal, the gauls did not get vaccinated
the reference to the "gauls" is a fairly classic marker for right-wing and far-right idiots in france, i didn't think it existed in quebec as well.
great intellectuals of the 21st century.
the gray-faced guy is more loaded than just a happy / unhappy guy. it's the same of "npc" (in short, people on board one ideological side or another, but who only regurgitate ready-to-think from others and who "bug" when you the derailments of their script, giving the impression of chatting to a robot when you interact with them).
since we assume that you are self-representing with it, it blurs your message a little
> family heritage
gallic?
your npc is missing a mask
bahahaha he represents himself by a npc
typical npc
i don't think you understand the use of this same op haha. so you are an npc?
it lacks a bell center and a hockey team and no one would be offended.
you are a non-player character.
you had to be cave not to know. it's been 1 month since the news (rad can, vat, bell) talk about it ... in addition to the moron who organizes the event, who had his posters stolen (big lol).
this is a big problem here in qc and this land in 2021. nobody takes the time, 2 minutes of their life, to do research on what interests them or that is about.
life lesson 101 for you 😅
it's so hard to mind your own business
it was okay when it was for hockey but not when it was for drinking and dancing.
[removed]
so you have a reaction from an npc in both situations?
since we are in a democracy, each journalist has had his skunk or is it just those from radio-canada?
it doesn't fly high in the comments
i don't know what's worse between his attitude or his behavior.
but it was precisely magic, like essential oils, homeopathy, etc. homeopathy is very french. not shiny.
it's because they fell into it when they were little!
i laughed at that one x'd
gold
but these antivaxxers are crazy
they had the getafix potion
i don't understand why they use the term gaul when no gaul has ever set foot here.
why did they use this? in reference to the asterix comics?
> i didn't think it also existed in quebec.
it's very common in quebec, but it's the first time i've seen it used in a way other than being surrounded by english.
oh shit i didn't know
i just often see it as a reaction even on twitter
yep, my father is from burgundy in france ^^
he was even at the inauguration of bibracte (gallic archaeological site)
we're all npcs looking for someone. how many levels do you have in the "school of life" talent tree?
> and it will land in 2021
what is the relationship with ecuador in 2021?
the vaccination coverage of ch supporters is likely to have been much higher than that of participants of an anti-mask / vaccine / all festival, by definition.
lame ass trolling alert
force i want
tell me that you subscribe to the theses of the far right without telling me that you subscribe to the theses of the far right.
it must be based on the subsidies received by the government. as rc is fully funded by the government, they receive more than others.
uh, what's the connection with democracy?
i expected nothing less!
we are still talking about anti-vaccine people, education is surely not a priority
what about the guy who offers to cure just about everything with raw vegetable juice.
things are not going well in the land of human rights.
we should have renamed the pfizer vaccine by "magic bite" then.
through toutatis, legault falls on our heads.
they clearly did not know what was in it, the recipe is secret ...
her name is manonramix and she's a farfadruid
it was recently discovered that beyond all expectation, the potion consisted of dry blue labatt, bacon juice and mush.
they see themselves as a gang of merry villagers resisting the empire ....
i think that's it, yes, all of quebec is subject to the vaccine dictatorship. all ? no, a village of irreducible beauçois still refuses to be vaccinated blah blah blah.
> with reference to the asterix comics
literally yes. do you really think that these people have enough historical culture to know the gauls outside of asterix?
it was a really good run. i'm going to miss the excitement before the games, the sweet madness that took hold of the streets, and the feeling that, regardless of who we were and where we came from, we were all united in one. joy, the same hope.
but there is one thing that i will not miss.
bet99.net wall-to-wall advertising hosts tabarnak i am more able to see the face of georges st-pierre.
it was a great game anyway and i'm glad we made it that far. must stay positive
uh. do you want to make us cry by reminding us that quebec has chosen canada twice?
maybe when i retire? (i'm not 20)
let's add one pain to another, ouch! nice run like that.
i admit that i hoped throughout the match, but unfortunately the result confirmed my realistic thoughts: it would have been impossible for montreal to win 4 games in a row against a talented team at all levels who, in addition, won the cup last year and hardly changed after that.
on the other hand, i won't whine for complaining: montreal had its best elimination run since 1993 and i happen to be one of the generations who had never seen montreal in the final! and we at least avoided being swept in 4.
go habs go!!!!!
ugh, 1-0 more. at this point it's just plain and pathetic.
it's not clear ... if tampa bay has the same team next year they will probably win again ...
considering the fate of sovereignty following its speech, your meme is borderline cruel lol
… and in the meantime, with the same serenity as all our behavior during the games, we still have to swallow the defeat this time, it's not easy. i apologize for having waited to come and find you; i must admit that we continued to hope for a long time ... because it is, i must tell you that it is hard, it hurts more, it hurts more deeply than any defeat of a match, and i know what i mean.
j: have long worked as a doctor in elite sport, including the exercise physiology evaluation of the canada team which confronted the ussr in the 1980s. i believe that tampa represents a dynasty that will be very difficult to conquer for at least the next 2 years.
maybe the next final will be in about 30 years ... i won't even be able to go freaking out (flying?) police cars at my age :(
see you in 25 years!
rené, we failed you; (
what hurts more is losing 1-0 but hey.
as a federalist i love to see the sovereignists revere a team whose name is the thing they hate with all their soul 😆. masterstroke.
you think in love, it is sorely disappointing.
continental french here and downright off-topic, is 'run' usually feminine in quebec french?
here in speedruns and video games we tend to talk about a 'run'.
lol so much! my 11 year old son kept asking why the falcon and winter soldier villain was making announcements!
third time's the charm, dit-on
no, quebec did not choose canada in 1995. i think that is quite clear.
pi polls in favor are at an all-time low lol. got to start admitting sovereignty ain't as popular as you think
we are still not the maple leafs.
the last game was the most disappointing ...
they are 18 million above the salary cap, they will have to get rid of a lot of players.
the lightning will be a very different team next year. one, they will have to deal with a payroll that far exceeds the cap, so many players will have to quit. then there's the expansion draft, surely seattle will get some good lightning players.
it’s sure you are kidding. or well you're 12 years old.
reading a history book, wouldn't that tempt you from time to time?
un speedrun
one run
indeed it can be confusing, but that's what it is.
yeah, we say "a run" here, a bit like we say "a job" unlike you who say "a job": p
a lot of words borrowed directly from english become feminine here (game, run, job), it is less true when they have been quebecized (un parté)
third time ducharme?
0.5% is missing to be clear.
well, let's say that if french speakers had had a little more self-esteem and willpower, we wouldn't be there. immigrants vote no but as far as i know the french are still in the majority.
on the other hand, i do not believe in a third referendum. i think that quebec will achieve its independence in stages, because canada would still cheat anyway.
admit that it is not so bad that support for sovereignty is still at 30% after 25 years of ridicule, of hiding the idea, of the sinking pq, of the heartbreaking defeat of 1995, and of the young people who have nothing to do with politics or history. if it was a bad idea it would be 10-15%.
support for sovereignty will remain at this level for the simple reason that ottawa gives a little bit of rope each time sovereignty seems to be reborn. if ottawa were more intransigent, we would have been independent for a long time.
on the contrary, if ottawa gave us quasi-autonomy, that would be satisfactory for many nationalists, so it would perhaps lower support for sovereignty. on the other hand, the more autonomy we gain, the more we want ... in short, it comes down to legault's position: a strong quebec in a united canada. what amounts to a situation similar to the european union, in the end?
personally, i believe that canada will explode without quebec. just to see the dealings in the west.
3 digital advantages during which tampa was more dangerous than the ch. the game was played there, in my opinion.
the game was pretty disjointed overall, the guys ran out of gas.
the second you mean?
i was waiting for this comment
[deleted]
a bus ...
i was talking more about massive voter fraud, but hey.
okay, we don't care. we got you by the collar lol. you are poor and you need federal money. we're not as silly as you think;)
hospitals and infrastructure in quebec are in poor condition. it's not soon that you will be independent
you start from the point of view that the federal government is anti-quebec when in fact the liberals understand the canadian duality and give concessions in good faith to quebec because they seek to protect the french fact in canada and the quebec distinction. all this is not pure strategy, but rather ideology. influential quebec ministers like dion and joly were responsible for these files. would you say that they are anti quebec and that their policies are pure strategy?
> the guys ran out of gas.
at the price of gas i understand
i think they tried too hard to play it physical and it got them off balance. so many missed opportunities.
a little yeah
oh no, there. it is “a” bus.
there is that. we must not bend, one day we will have our country, regardless of the federal government's shenanigans.
when you say yourself, are you an anglophone or an immigrant?
we don't need federal money, or very little. the freedom of the french-canadian people is better than a golden chain.
how do you want to solve our social problems when half of our budget and decisions go through ottawa?
go read the book that says yes. everyone wins in quebec's sovereignty, be it anglophones, immigrants, aboriginals and francophones. in the medium term, quebec will be able to make all its decisions and invest where it wishes, instead of paying the british monarchy, the pipelines in the west, the cars in ontario, the dams in newfoundland, or the shipbuilding in halifax and vancouver. ($ 100g).
no. i believe some liberals are well intentioned. but i think they are wrong to believe that the canadian government can ensure the happiness of all canadians, when their interests are often diametrically opposed. quebec cannot make its own decisions, canada makes decisions based on the interests of the majority, that is, the english-speaking majority.
the federal government should at least withdraw from anything related to culture and language.
maybe i'm too innocent, but it's just a hijab. it doesn't hurt anyone, right? there is worse problem than that with dealing than saying if a person wears a tissue on the head or not ...
i am uncomfortable with all aspects of this controversy.
i still don't understand ...
it's a real shit show that, never have i had a jewish teacher to cheer me on this religion or a doctor with a turban or even a muslim colleague to make me change my belief. really we are looking for a problem that is not there, the caq made the problem. surely it will go to the supreme court to end it.
i am against the idea of wearing the veil. i believe that is a way of controlling the woman. that said, i am against this law which prevents veiled women from working in certain jobs. they are already, in a sense, oppressed at home so why make their lives more difficult? we agree that whatever the government may say, this law specifically targets veiled women. no one is shocked by a yarmulke.
it reminds me of the day there was a charlie hebdo attack, i dressed in black that day at school, i ended up in the principal's office because i was not wearing my gray uniform, i 'had explained that it was to endure the mourning of certain friends but i was accused of just looking for a reason to cause trouble
(while we know like the guy who reads his book in the corner)
i understand why in quebec secularism is something very important but this law is simply discriminatory because it has so much more effect on those who are muslims and wear a hijab or orthodox jews who wear their kippah.
this law will only make those who want to work as a teacher in your province want to either move to another fairly francophone region (eastern ontario or perhaps new brunswick) or simply learn more english to work at school. boards in english.
it doesn't help at all to encourage your immigrants to speak french either.
i can't wait to see all the wedding rings celebrated in the church be removed ...
school boards have already been abolished, except for english-speaking boards for mysterious reasons ...
a question that anti-law 21 avoid is what a teacher who wears a religious symbol would say if a child asks what it is.
proselytizing can very well be done unconsciously.
or the trials that will be postponed when some refuse to be judged by a veiled judge, because they want to be certain of being judged according to the law of men and not that of a god ...
what do you think ?
i seem to have missed something in the news? someone can help me?
there is therefore a law for the french and another for the english. the francos can drive at 100 km hr on the road and the anglos at 150 km hr.
the english are protected by canada because they are canadians.
i don't understand this cartoon
worse the freedom of children not to have their heads stuffed with their imaginary good god should not be forgotten this one. the school is at the service of children not at the service of teachers. if they can't remove their veil, kirpa or cross etc for a couple of hours while they are interacting with our children, that proves that they are fundamentalists and i don't want them near my children.
adhemar pion
the judgment spoke more of english speaking when speaking of english school boards, not of each english speaking employee. the cartoonist missed his target.
in addition, it falls at the same time as [the filing of this study.] ( appinfoios & accesvia = sharing)
why was a recommended r/quebec i’m in ontario
surprise surprise, the linguistic minority in quebec is anglophone. what were they thinking? eventually they will have to come to the conclusion that they will not be able to apply their law as they wish. it will never be allowed because the charter applies.
we always come back to the only possible solution: to lead the boat alone.
that's what we endure that the roc laws apply for us too (!?).
obviously, these same laws are used to protect francophones outside quebec. so what are we complaining about? what did they not understand?
if the caq continues this file, it will wake up the separatist movement and give a cause and a reason to do so. its long-term strategy? personally, i think so, if not as long as they like me to brew shit.
a chance that male muslim teachers will be able to continue to indoctrinate quebec youth!
/s 
this law is as stupid and backward as the caq.
excuse my french still learning
why does the majority of quebec want bill 21? i do not understand.
if i wear a montreal canadiens jersey during a trip to boston, can you be considered a provocation to display an ostentatious sign? hey, let's say hockey is my religion?
one thing is certain, there is no lack of correlations between hockey and certain religious practices. we talk about the high mass on saturday evening, the next savior of a team, in short, an almost religious fervor for many supporters, a passion that is often transmitted from generation to generation.
if one relies on bauer's analysis, the canadian fulfills two major functions of religion: to perpetuate traditions and to be a link around which individuals commune.
did jesus separate the waters? was alain quoted's goal good? it's almost the same fight!
its seems du devoir, i don't think the intention was humorous i rather think that the societal aspect is the source of inspiration and therefore that it is for the wearing of ostentatious sign.
boomer humor
[removed]
yep but part of our population is xenophobic and thinks the scrap of tissue is going to convert their kids or w / e.
in the first degree, and vis-à-vis individual freedom, perfectly agree. that's why i find it hard to decide my opinion on this.
below the surface hides that for a gigantic number of these women in the world, and some among us, it is precisely a symbol of oppression by a true of true misogynistic patriarchy as one can hardly conceive them here - then to oppose it is to put oneself at odds with that tyranny.
and we soon forgot about it, but we got rid of our own problem of the theocracy's encroachment on our mores ~ 60 years ago. i'm glad we got rid of it, all branches of my family have their own catholic horror stories. this is a difficult gain to balance with freedom of religion, and the answer is not always to foolishly tighten the screws on what is "reasonable" accommodation. at the same time, my grandparents were as opposed to hijabs as they were to crucifixes for real and valid reasons. without following in their footsteps, i understand the fiercest.
in short, if it were just the display of original culture by post-catholic schools and post-muslim immigrants, in the sense of the oppressions that these religions historically recall, it would be a debate that could not be more soft and all. the world would have to do as it pleases. as long as it is a reminder of contemporary atrocities, the debate is at least worth having.
if we cannot carry our political beliefs or affirm them in the workplace, the same should apply to religious beliefs.
perhaps to avoid this kind of situation, as much as possible at least:
if we prohibit the wearing of signs of belonging to political and philosophical ideologies (which is the case with the duty of confidentiality to which civil servants are currently bound), but not religious ideologies, we de facto attribute to them a special (and higher) status. i do not see how it is compatible with a secular society.
yes and no. it's just a hijab except in some cases. my grandfather is from tunisia. when he brought my mother to see her family there she was traumatized by the treatment of women. the only thing that protects them is their husbands or fathers so they are free to beat them. there it is a symbol of submission, a vestige of religion and its bad values that modern forms have taken. the law on secularism does not address this aspect at all, which makes it ineffective.
ok what if i wear a t-shirt that says "god doesn't exist" do you think i will have the right to wear it in class as a teacher?
this is an eminently political question, that is understandable. it goes to the heart of the conception of society that this makes a majority of quebecers in opposition to the canadian multiculturalist conception.
religion took a lot of place in quebec and was almost completely eliminated from institutions, power, the state. you have to understand that for a long time here, the church _was_ the state. we went from _a lot_ of religion _ everywhere_ to _ very little_, almost _nulle part_. it was a profound change in society that mobilized large sections of quebec society. it was wanted, believed necessary. and we still haven't looked back out of regret.
what multiculturalism says is that it is all well and good, but it is the business of french canadians in quebec. a person who settles in canada has nothing to do with it. it is incidental and attempting to associate membership of the "canadian nation" with another particular historical framework is fundamentally nonsense, contrary to the principles established by the charter of 1982. your mores, customs, values, history , etc are your choices and we even encourage you to preserve them as long as you share the values of freedom and democracy. this leads to communalism, which does not prevent living together, but of a different style. everyone in their community, together. the interface is therefore community. french-speaking quebecers vs english-speaking vs jews vs muslims etc. it is a living together where the matrix of assimilation is roughly the british parliamentary values + english language + capitalism + social conscience. spend money, open a bank account. the rest, blah ...
quebec's history is unique in the world and its privileged mode of integration reflects its genesis. the fight for the emancipation of religion is considered fundamental, a large part of the current population having lived before the unofficial or official deconfessionalization. how many of us have almost never been born, our grandfathers or grandmothers having entered the brothers / sisters before leaving to experience something else? it was common not so long ago! we exported priests! yet that has changed. and we consider that it is a fight that defines society, one fight among others, but still important. everyone knows very well that a veiled teacher does not _automatically_ proselytize. but what we call "secularism" is a societal choice, something that distinguishes us, that we have collectively done and with which we want to continue to live.
take abortion as an example. many religious people (or others) believe that abortion should not be allowed. however, no one in canada would agree to go back in the name of "religious freedoms". it is a debate that is closed, and it is part of the canadian and quebecois identity. suppose we have 3m immigrants from the southern united states settling in alberta next year. would we agree to go back on the right to abortion? no.
if you're under 35 and don't have much contact with your ancestors, it might be harder to feel in your flesh. all the more so since the education of the last 30 years has been responsible for eliminating in large part the "anti-religion" feeling of the past. but you still have millions of fellow citizens for whom it is fundamental.
yes, but if we focus on this problem, we don't have to worry about health care, education, economy, infrastructure, future investments and any other issues that need to be addressed but which costs money. conversely, the tram project has been modified to suit people other than those who live where these new constructions will take place.
if the women take it off, there are many who will hurt them.
religion of peace.
> it doesn't hurt anyone, right?
it oppresses the woman who wears it.
i think i missed a bit, what event does this refer to?
it is about the exemption of english-language school boards ordered in superior court from the terms of bill 21. a decision that is nonetheless contested that quebec is appealing.
obviously the caricature is not perfect; an english-speaking teacher working in a french-speaking school would be required to respect law 21.
law 21 prohibits the wearing of the veil, but english-speaking school boards are exempt
i think the cartoon refers to the fact that english schools are exempt from the law
me too. i don't understand the reference
neither do i. a swirl in a glass of water. i bet muslims don't care about this law.
we decided, in quebec, that it was unacceptable for a teacher to flaunt his religion.
it is not a small handful of indoctrinated montreal wokes that will change the desire of the majority population, and especially those who have suffered from religion.
the law does not prevent anyone from working in certain jobs. it simply states that the employee must leave his magical items in the locker room during work.
we are not talking about being shocked, we are talking about representing the state.
if a person puts their religious beliefs ahead of the law of neutrality, it is a sign that that person might be willing to put the laws of their dogma ahead of the laws of the state.
for some women, on the contrary, to say that her work does not allow her to wear it offers her a chance to escape this rule imposed by religious patriarchy. it works both ways.
> that said, i am against this law which prevents veiled women from working in certain jobs
that doesn't stop them at all, unless they leave it in the locker room when they come home to work in the morning.
wow that's really not nice. it's horrible actually
> i understand why in quebec secularism is something very important but this law is simply discriminatory because it has so much more effect on those who are muslims and wear a hijab or orthodox jews who wear their kippah.
it should be remembered that before the quiet revolution the sisters and brothers taught by wearing their religious symbols in class. but these are actually told to remove them. so it has already been done for the catho, that is why now it does not apply too much to them, and it is also why we are asking the same thing now of other religions.
the death toll has dropped, but at what cost?
for the nursing staff to return to 40 hours a week, we would have to fall below 300 cases per day.
in order for them to take their vacation, we would have to drop to 100 cases per day. it would be a good idea because they are going crazy or screwing their camp.
the death toll has dropped because the planet has focused more scientific effort on covid than on any science project since science began. before christmas, we were talking about 79,000 published scientific research (that's more than nasa and cancer research altogether).
our caregivers are fully geared to prevent the world from dying, but that doesn't mean we can go on like this forever.
it can't be the stanley cup every night at every homework for 2-3 years.
would you like a sharknado watch party within a year to remember the predictions at this time?
zone orange everywhere in quebec except montreal from march 8
lord, i was able to receive notifications from la presse. variant ... variant ... variant ... variant
i have always hated the idea that the media want to scare people. but the. i admit defeat. even la presse adds more every day. pu able.
edit: typo
i predict that the word "scarecrow", scusez i meant "variant", will be pronounced at least 54 times during the press briefing to scare the world, oops again, i meant to try to justify the unjustifiable .
that is to say do not remove the curfew and do not put anything in yellow / green / brown / purple. just orange and red.
tabarnak ...
a sip every time the word variant is spoken tonight. not game.
another curfew for montreal? it is describing in esti, i finish at 8:00 pm in the evening. i would like to go to the convenience store or go get a coffee sometimes tse -_-
bitcoin
my favorite version of this meme: [ 4.3(
majority variants
the sharks
variant!
but seriously, how many variants have been confirmed here?
[deleted]
not forgotten there is also the new law 101 ... in françaaa please
they're not wrong, variants can be more of a problem as it's easier to get infected.
you've made a great anti-science gang on this sub. pathetic!
the number of cases? what does that change the number of cases? hospitalizations are the problem. that's good because the vaccine protects well the elderly likely to be hospitalized. we are quickly heading towards zero hospitalizations
so vaccination has and will have no impact on hospitalizations? otherwise a little more detail would be needed at the level of your sources for the thresholds that you advance.
it seems to me that the reality must be a lot more nuanced and vary from region to region according to their hospital capacity, the progress of the vaccination campaign, demographics, etc.
> the death toll has dropped because the planet has focused more scientific effort on covid than on any science project since science began. before christmas, we were talking about 79,000 published scientific research (that's more than nasa and cancer research altogether).
and? i don't think the management has changed significantly since may (at least they abandoned the rapid intubation protocol for patients that was killing them). when someone is diagnosed with covid, they are still told to go home, take tylenol for the fever, and call 911 if they are unable to breathe. doctors in france have even been threatened by their professional order for trying to decarbonize their patients who have contracted covid with vitamin d, even if the national academy of medicine has recommended vitamin d supplementation during the pandemic since may.
i think the only approach that has really changed is the addition of dexamethasone, otherwise the protocols haven't changed much. and i don't believe the inpatient case fatality rate has come down ... anyway, in the uk [the numbers for icu patients are basically the same in both waves] ( / /i.imgur.com/w8dgrid.png).
there are hospitals and doctors who use up-to-date information-based protocols, but the medical bureaucracy is very slow to keep up with the science.
in short, if the number of deaths has decreased, it's not because people are being treated better, it's because there are fewer infections.
out of curiosity, where does the figure of 300 that you put forward come from? to be clear, i would be in favor of a clear and simple goal like this. instead of the population asking themselves questions, we could look at the figure and say to ourselves, "oh no, we are at 550, no time yet".
what if we facilitated access to medical studies in order to have more staff?
issa date
!remindme 1 year
montreal has marsian and lunar variants
legault follows his feelings life is beautiful
not lanaudière :(
montreal and national capital
do like me and stop feeding you news sites. it is absolutely nothing whether you are informed or not about the variants. taking care of your health also means stopping absorbing media fearmongering and just living your life.
is it sensationalist or click bait, maybe.
but want to scare? it is a strong enough intention to lend ...
i advise you to relax a little and try to qualify 🤗
close the app if you're no longer able ... you know you can close the app?
sounds like you really like to pump yourself up.
and for what purpose? do you think a government deliberately chooses to impose restrictions and weaken the economy?
like when the church is on fire and the government keeps telling us about smoking, no connection right ?.
cirrhosis of the liver guaranteed.
the craziest thing is that even the orange areas have one at 9:30 pm ...
currency
> public health agency of canada: if you want to avoid a third wave of variants which makes us estimate up to 20,000 cases per day in april, continue the containment and distancing measures.
public health also predicted 30 to 150 deaths per day in montreal in july 2020, excluding chsld deaths. verification made, there were 1-2 deaths per day in all of quebec, including chslds, in july 2020. their doomsday predictions never came true. their short-term predictions extrapolating current trends are correct, hypothetical predictions of this or that never happened.
they don't know what's going to happen any more than you or i do. current figures say we can let go. if the trends change, we can always postpone measures, or try new measures considering that the containment measures, to date, have a very, very ambiguous record. to the point where some studies by emeritus researchers suggest that their effect is practically zero.
no, we would have 20k cases per day if we maintain the measures according to their projections. they must be strengthened so as not to return to 20k within 2 weeks according to them. moreover, we are already very late in their projections, we should be over 7k today, especially since certain restrictions have been lifted across canada.
if they wanted to scare, i think they should have been more realistic anyway.
[deleted]
the variants bring above all a big prize of unaccounted for. we touch wood until we have a variant that makes our vaccines ineffective or with possibly more serious symptoms.
it's not new, more people are infected with the virus + the pool of mutation is large + there is a chance that we will end up with new variants.
you surely have solid proof of that
[deleted]
yes yes, everyone who thinks not like you are<insérer ici l'insulte du jour> !
long live diversity (that is, everyone must think and be the same)!
science is something you have to take your word for and it's used to rush arbitrary decisions that you can't contradict or revise, ever!
that's what it is to be scientific, you're always right then if others question you, you just have to scream that they are anti-science, that they are nasty conspirators, then they have to shut up!
there are never any disagreements in science! it's like religion, have faith, then to think otherwise is heresy!
long live legault, our glorious, immaculate leader who must not be contradicted or criticized under any circumstances!
:-p
it's quite honestly starting to look like a cult, your business.
we're not anti-science, but ok.
we must distinguish between science and public health discourse. public health is badly mistaken on many subjects. example: they discouraged the wearing of masks in chslds throughout the spring of 2020. they continue their focus on surfaces at this time!?! science and them are not really the same thing.
show me your phd to prove that you're really anti-anti-science
i second. i believe fillion and his minions infiltrated this sub. pity!
the vaccination? we do not have 5% of the population vaccinated, there will be no effect on the impact of the pandemic until we have 60-65% of the population vaccinated. so why would we relax the measurements?
and we're talking about the conference tonight. not what we're going to do in september, there.
it seems to me that i shouldn't have to explain now that an auntie in a tank can cross quebec 20 times before realizing that he has symptoms of covid.
sources? reads everything, not just the headlines there.
there are dozens of articles that talk about this, google caregivers exhaustion covid 2021
israel is pretty good at vaccinating everything and they want to shut it down.
what's the whole vitamin d thing and the "logic" behind it?
wow wonderful photo. it is really a beautiful region that you have in gaspésie!
mauzusse that i would like to go to gaspésie one day 🧡
"it's going to be fine"
esti that we are well near the water ... tite bierrette ... ti feu relaxe .... lol. long live quebec !!!! yezzzir
really a beautiful sight ttcchheeeriiiisssse!
an image evoking calm and beauty. ❤
we created ourselves at od
excellent photo! very successful!
yes yes yes
it is very pretty, that.
this summer i did 1h30 of chariot from perçé to forillon, 1h30 of mountain and then at the top of mont st-alban .... i could still see the rock
that's a big rock
whoa! double rocher
imagine if the rainbow would have come out of the trunk
that is by assuming that we survive the covid
yes of course
go put this on / r / canada lol.
we hang out with the cool countries clique 😎
there is much to be proud of in standing out across canada for our promises and actions to fight climate change. the same cannot be said of canada, which has redoubled its commitment to oil projects ...
denmark is doubly represented with greenland.
we the french are proud of you :) a pleasure to see the flowers of lisse!
french here. can you explain to me what these countries are doing here? (and bravo for your promotion, the anglo will appreciate ^^)
boga deez nuts?
our old team quebec ireland france back at it again to piss off the petro-bourgeoisie ✌️
i would like that to know what it is the% of people who upvoted who know what the boga is.
pho boga to save the planet!
nice
this is marked as “popular near you.” bruh it’s like a day long drive to quebec from where i am how is this near me.
when will gentilly reopen?
i like it, it's not so much the countries, certainly the territories and their inhabitants who share a common thought.
>california
california still burns huge amounts of natural gas. it has no place there.
since when has california been a country?
[several other provinces are, however, members of the powering past coal alliance (ppca).] (
review of the day on air canada, 4 posivotes and no comments. polite indifference, therefore, not the worst imaginable result.
and we will notice that half undergo british imperialism ...
the republic of california?
and california
some of the other provinces are entirely or mostly renewables. even bc which is doing a huge o&g project (coastal gaslink) is 98+% hydro/renewables. it would be nice if we could find a way to export how green most of canada is to the rest of the world and figure out how to supply remote and rural communities with energy that isn't fossil fuels.
okay, that comment will be downvoted here, but it needs to be said.
quebec, which is a world hydroelectric power and which blames the west for their oil exploitation, is utter absurdity. in addition, we benefit greatly from the equalization that comes directly from this operation, and that we ourselves consume a lot of oil.
if quebec tomorrow morning became a desert full of oil and alberta was full of rivers, the roles would immediately be reversed, and quebecers would be much less virtuous when it comes to the environment.
nah greenland is ours. (⌐▨ \ _▨)
> **core members** of boga commit to end new concessions, licensing or leasing rounds for oil and gas production and exploration and to set a paris-aligned date for ending oil and gas production and exploration on the territory over which they have jurisdiction.
it's written on the poster “beyond oil and gas alliance.” even if you're not familiar with the group, it doesn't take papineau's head to make the connection ...
it's a street gang, isn't it?
completely dismantled. it wasn't good technology anyway.
>boga is designed to enable the participation of goverments **that are not yet ready** to commit to a full ban on oil and gas production.
my comment was not to denigrate the other provinces. it's mostly that this is the kind of thing that / r / canada hates:
* quebec which does diplomacy, nation to nation without canada
* anti oil & gas
yeah but we all know the rest of canada don't want power past le oil
more like 1/3
what remains of british imperialism ....
go ncr, go
and wales (wales)
i mean... bc also exports tons and tons of coal...
your argument would be more convincing if quebec had not expressly left its abundant reserves of shale gas in the ground.
i downvoted and here's why:
my counter arguments are as follows:
* the equalization money, we would receive it whether there is oil exploitation or not.
* the choice to invest so much money in oil projects is entirely up to the provincial government of alberta as well as the canadian federal government. quebec has opposed such projects for a long time, particularly the most recent being the energy east pipeline.
* quebec already has oil and gas reserves. our government has chosen not to exploit them despite the economic spinoffs we could have had. besides, i believe that legault had spoken on this very recently.
and so u / isarmal started world war iii.
not yet, but we could offer denmark to exchange it for anticosti island!
thank you, i didn't know it existed
wow, it's still big as a commitment
is it someone you know papineau? i think this expression sounds good!
"the democratic republic of north korea"
is it a democracy in the name?
" l’international climate science coalition "
clearly a good group against climate change tse! oh wait, this is a climate skeptic group.
no different than wales representing a section of the uk, california representing a section of the us, or greenland representing a section of denmark.
québec is clearly the most progressive part of canada.
the other big provinces do the same.
"patrolling the mojave almost makes you wish for a nuclear winter."
greenland is not a sovereign country either
yeah, i live in bc now, it's hilarious how fake our environmentalism is, living in the north it's so easy to see how things which are meant to be carbon neutral aren't, cut down a thousand year old 75m tree, plant a small soft wood tree in it's place that will grow to maybe 5m before harvest and you're somehow carbon neutral.  wee\[re ravaging our northern areas and just hoping canadians don't notice.  google maps obscures how deforested northern bc is but you can see it on duck duck go maps very clearly in the satellite view.
that's a good point.
it's correct; there are red tit flags
car price: $ 500
price of lumber in the trunk: $ 1,500
price of towing after this little getaway: $ 150
being the subject of a meme: priceless
suspension point: $ 400 at midas.
it reminds me of [the time i was the idiot] ( the frame bent and the ball began to scratch the asphalt 30m from the destination. not on the metropolitan highway at least!
all this to save $ 50 shipping.
> okay, i'll go not far, i'll go po quickly.
that person there, probably.
i told you honey that it was going to fit!
"what, wood is half the price of last year?" me took fifty overflowing. "
worse me who shits tack when i carry 5 bags of rock dust
pfff, amateur. there is still room for at least 20 boards.
get low get low get lowwwww
to the windowwwwwww
r/idiotsincars
tequila, heineken
you know, they let you take it in 2, even 3, separate trips!
this is another way to lower his suspension.
i don't know if i'm more impressed with the amount of wood in the trailer or the age of the vehicle still in motion.
note which vehicle is probably worth less than the cost of delivery.
renting a truck or having it delivered costs a lot less than changing the entire suspension on a mini van.
when you're too cheap to pay for delivery. for the amount he bought, it should be free, right?
pos: your first purchase after winning the million at the loto-covid.
i worked at ikea and am now at canac, am 0 surprised, lol.
once i transported 16 technoblocks of 80 lbs in a toyota echo from st-george de beauce to quebec ...
hey.. how come the price of lumber has gone down in quebec and not in ontario? 🤣
men will make a danish kabane lbois
easier to unload.
by going up the odds at home, the 2x4s are already hitting the ground.
a little gasp and the turn is on.
the sad part is that lumber is worth more then the car
the driver would probably tell us "i have l'doua"
r/idiotsincars
at the price that wood is, it is the only chariot he has been able to afford. be indulgent.
in sherbrooke that? it's even sicker ahahaha i want to see him go up the hill on the king in downtown.
with all that plywood it must be a millionaire! or as my friend would say a heavy
my short bout in a material yard saw a guy buying $ 15,000 worth of ceramic, all on a pallet. the lift isn't even an inch wide to fit through the side door of the truck. their destination is 150km away and everyone jokes that the van costs less than the stock anyway ...
as for this tank, i think a policeman would have a few tickets to give, more than obvious. i would be curious to see if the load overrun is too long ...
[difficult choice] (
(he didn't do the right one)
[deleted]
it's good to see quebecers know how to do things in the most canadian way possible. 
in one trip
i think there’s room for a few more boards 😂
when you craft all your logs in your wooden plank inventory in minecraft
all my friends know the low rider
the low rider is a little lower
zé l'doua
wow the suspension is already finished or it will be after this trip.
but seriously it's very dangerous because it loses a lot of traction if it has to turn.
is it a hearse that fills up with planks ???
not badly certain that the rear coils have smashed. my guess on the first photo but looking at the second ...
hahaha ... no but seriously, the lumber yard guy should never have agreed to let him go. they have a responsibility if something happens.
to say that i feel bad when i go there and that my trunk does not close completely and that a 2x4 protrudes by 5cm.
no more inhibitions, i'll do like him!
my french isn't good, but i read your comment and 🤣. thank you very much for this good joke.
visa, i'm fine!
"i have a boyfriend who travels and who does it for you for less"
* stoned flush with the ground by the shock of the draft *
he blew the radiator and the bumper of his renault
hahahaha fucking legendary. good call for taking pictures.
/r/thatlookedexpensive
ayoye, this delivery must have cost you dearly!
we move on july 1 to honor the nomadic way of life of several first nations.
everyone knows that in quebec on july 1st it is the national moving day and nothing else!
we could also have indicated in the image on the right: quebec which crisses but which benefits from a public holiday all the same
i suggest instead that we extend canada day to last 365 days, so i could decide which day i'm moving!
quebec who pretends they have done nothing with the first nations lol
roc: racists of canada
iroquoians = corn
matrilinéaire
agriculture
iroquoiens
sedentary
in fact before most of the leases ended on may 1st. they moved the date to july 1 because it was the month immediately after school ended. in this way, families who move do not need to transfer their young people from school 1.5 months before the end of the school year.
i'm not sure who said that, falardeau maybe, but:
"in quebec, we celebrate canada in the best way we know: by crunching our camps!"
it always made me laugh.
it is not a party, but it is beautiful and well the national day of the move. it was in may before, but the quebec government moved it on july 1 in the 1970s if i remember. it is better for children since they can finish their year at the same school. basically, it was the plq that proposed this.
aaaah, that was the holiday on my calendar on thursday ...
basically they chose a public holiday when they moved the date from may 1 to july 1 because it allows the person who is moving not to lose income.
because we are better?
also, the iroquoians lived in longhouses.
omg faik our high school history teacher didn't invent that acronym?
ffs. will you marry me? chuis dead.
the algonquins were semi nomadic, weren't they?
necksnapper spoke of several, not all.
then, it should be noted that we sometimes speak of a semi-sedentary way of life, because they abandoned their villages when the land was exhausted after a few years of farming, then they would set fire to another end of the forest to clear it. and build a new village there.
you take me back to high school xddd
i think you are not responding to the correct comment.
who are you?
cartier's 3 voyages: 1534, 1535, 1541.
longhouses were mostly the seat of government, right?
nenon, it must have been in guides somewhere, because i remember seeing that in elementary school.
they were nomads and moved according to the seasons following the herds of animals they hunted
> necksnapper spoke of several, not all.
indeed, what we teach young people are the 3 linguistic families and we characterize them! the algonquian and eskimo-aleut (inuit) families were on the move!
> it should be noted that we sometimes speak of a semi-sedentary lifestyle
this is also taught in the program! this is also one of the assumptions why the village of hochelaga is no longer on the island during european visits after cartier's trip.
maïs is above all a joke for those who did their secondary 4 history course in the quebec system, it is a running gag that teachers used (and use) this acronym!
alfred! delighted! and you, what's your little name?
canton = square, seigneurie = rectangle
the egyptians practiced the fallow and i do not know any more who or when but "triennial rotation".
no memory of having learned that! seems to me it was one longhouse per extended clan?
longhouses were inhabited by families, lineage of the same matriarch, sisters, daughters. there was also food.
ok i understand. i might be a little too old to have had this acronym.
> this is also one of the assumptions why the village of hochelaga is no longer on the island during european visits after cartier's trip.
it wasn't just the village that was no longer there, neither were the iroquoians. it should also be remembered that when champlain arrived, he was drawn into a war expedition against the iroquois by an alliance of hurons, algonquins and montagnais. so it is possible that there was a war between the amerindian nations north of the river and those south of the river who turned the lowlands of the st. lawrence into no-man's-land.
after all, the st.lawrence river is a desirable colonization territory for colonies that profit from ocean trade, but much less so for people living largely on a subsistence economy exploiting forest animals for their contribution. meat, fur and leather.
but hey, we are at the stage of hypotheses without the possibility of verification.
rectangle> square
yes, but suddenly the house alone did not accommodate everyone. then my memories are also blurry.
wasn't it the other way around? the squares are larger but do not necessarily offer direct access to water and do not consider the real land. my history teacher was convinced that it was the french colonists who had understood nothing.
yeah, we'd have to bother looking for the real answer. it is far from the primary. but the efforts ...!
the french settlers used the segmentation of land in a rectangular strip. the use of the term "square head" in speaking of the english would come from the fact that the english separated their land into squares. the rectangles are better, as i indicated above. more access to water as you say. without knowing it at the time, it offers the advantage of machinery today. less turning at 180 ° since it is on the long side, therefore more efficient.
the division of land into a rectangle also helps the proximity of residences when settlers live on their land. which can be useful when there is a risk of attack. there is also another mode of land organization which is very interesting: [the square line] (
in france, it was common for the peasants to live in the village and go to work on their land each morning before returning to the village in the evening, while here, the peasants resided on their land and went to the village as needed. .
ohhhh garlic = automatically good for me
oh wow ... i didn't know boustan made poutine, so used to ordering the same things that i never look at the menu.
there is one right next to us, it's really dangerous :(
that of the boustan? she is really good!
#appropriationculturelle
i haven't figured out which way yet
i'm pregnant and this photo instantly brought back my nausea that had been gone for about a month! no kidding, in normal times, i would have flipped over the idea and i would have wanted to jump in my tank to eat one right away!
lebanese poutine is really good!
i'll allow it
i have a few english speaking friends who laughed at these posts on reddit: "do french people ever stop talking about food?"
typically i do not respond to these "observations" (and these posts), but in case ... f \ * \ * \ * yeah let's talk about it
my mouth is watering!
thanks for sharing this now i know what i'm going to eat for dinner tomorrow!
homer drooling.gif
wow thanks for the suggestion!
are you crazzzzzzy!!!!   your a genius!!!!!
that's a big yes
i think it has good garlic!
do not!
i have the impression that with the quantity of oil that there is already in the garlic potatoes, adding gravy will turn it into soup quite quickly, would still have to be tried: o
if you ever go to a restaurant called "boustan". that's exactly it, their potatoes. so underrated worse taste!
that with a shawarma. menoum
osti that i'm hungry
sometimes i wonder if i'm on r / quebec or on r / poutine lol
i really didn't like it unfortunately, maybe they missed the potatoes when i went?
edible lightning
jvis literally 1 minute from boustan, dangerous these images there.
anyone else have any idea what's the fucking good white sauce that comes with petaques?
that i'm jealous :( all these treasures beyond my reach
add chicken and you have a one way ticket to flavortown
you just reminded me of the magic poutine at shawarmaz. for those who live in montreal, if it's still open it's a must. town center opposite dorchester square on peel
the poutine from amir is on the boat
when i was in high school, there was a small lebanese restaurant in front of the school that made a special poutine (fries or garlic potatoes) + can for $ 5 for student lunch. it was delicious and there was always a line.
shoot yeah!
i would add some beef shawarma in there to complete the whole thing.
it's just me, but it looks like there are lumps of brown sauce at the top right 😕
fromagerie victoria?
potato or rice?
i'll allow it.
omg i had never tried. thank you for the inspiration! 🤣
ailoye...ok bye
that of shawarmaz sur peel messemble is insane. the magic poutine 🤩
the best i've seen is a side-by-side amir with a pizza thing. you could ask for a pizza with shawarma or amir taouk on it. it was, but my faith, incredible
amir : "write that down! write that down!"
oh wow!
where
fuck you i'm hungry
it's a good idea, but a poutine is made with fries 🤔
that's no in my case. it's not a poutine.
* aromatically * good!
we confirm you're not a vampire.
we will not lie to each other, work at home and the virtual allows me to eat garlic meals that i would not have dared to do before.
shit, i ate a greek salad last week, i think even on zoom i smelled onion.
a homeless garlic sock?
and you bacon.
you have 2 different vegetables in garlic potatoes.
yes that's right! :-)
i love how people even know where the $ 500 deal came from. it is manon massé who asks the question "how much does an apartment cost in montreal", legault answers "it starts at $ 500-600 and it can quickly go up to $ 1000". in my opinion, the mark is missing over $ 1000. he should have said "it starts in the $ 500-600 range and goes up pretty quickly to $ 1500".
go 1 1/2 to north montreal in a semi-basement!
i had rent at $ 520 per month in montreal in 2015, it was a studio the size of two wardrobes with steel bars on my small window. i imagine the rent is probably close to $ 700 now.
i remember when i arrived in quebec in 2014 already a 2 1/2 not clean cost $ 700 but it's true that like many europeans, 1 i was crossdresser and 2 i stayed on the set ...
so in 2021 i don't even dare to imagine what you have for $ 500 .... even in my hochelaga neighborhood, i sometimes see 4 1/2 going up to $ 1000!
and it’s so damaging because legault says he understands how much hardship he has imposed on us during 12 months of lockdown.
did you see his outremont house?  you could lockdown too if you lived in that comfort.
the prince of * "* *** yakafokon *** *" *
it was a typo......a louer instead of a lover.
results of a 5-minute search on kijiji, marketplace, and craigslist: 272, 93, and 108 listings for rentals under $ 620 respectively.
it's embarrassing that the media didn't take those 5 minutes.
not to mention that the $ 1,500 apartments are rarely inhabited alone. it is quite common for two people to live in a $ 1000-1200 apartment and 3 people in a $ 1300-1700 apartment. the accusation of being disconnected is exaggerated in my opinion.
u / savethisvideo
hey, i want one of those too!
not that hard, it's been 4 years since i live in an old 3 1/2 in the southwest at $ 615 / month ... with holes in the walls of rats / mice from time to time and ants every summer ... a little mold on the bathroom window ... really poorly insulated ... nvm.
well yes, you just had to look to rent a sofa in the living room for $ 500. so let's see, it's not expensive. s'tie bunch of bitch! / s
i think he meant $ 500 per person
it reminds me of one day my brother broke his arm while snowboarding on a module. his friend said to him: you should have kept your balance.
after the grocery store at $ 75 here are apartments at $ 500 mtl. the government is vrm disconnected sometimes
adjusted median market rents (mlm) (with services) $ per month for the montreal region:
studio | 1 cc | 2cc | 3cc | 4cc | 5cc | 6cc | 7cc and more
---|---|----|----|----|----|----|----
655$ | 770$ | 895$ | 1075$ | 1450$ | 1580$ | 1645$ | 1680$
source: 
she just totally trapped him with her question haha that's the kind of thing i vote for qs for sometimes, they bring things to the table that the other parties would get on with if they weren't there.
the segment is here:
[deleted]
> it starts in the $ 500-600 range
if you're ready to live in a dirty 1½.
in fact more specifically the question is how much a student should be paid. the $ 500-600 was clearly not for the average rent.
if only that was it. a nice 1 1/2 wouldn't bother me so much in my situation, but most of them are real holes
the worst part is that it would be in my business.
$ 700 would be a bit expensive for a prison cell ... but hey, we have to stick together for our brave owners! / s
in 2014, i rented a clean 3 1/2 for $ 615 in villeray. it is clear that i would not wish, even to someone i do not like, to live in a housing at $ 500 in 2021 in montreal, but yes if you rented at $ 700 a 2 1/2 not clean in 2014, it was not the deal of the century your business.
to see the amount of people here that no matter what legault says or does, they are against you are not going to make friends ...
by definition, this is not a minimum price. the distribution would be more informative to answer the question.
is that the price of the units currently for rent, or of all units, even those occupied by the same person for 20 years and that the owner is not increasing too much because she never causes trouble?
[deleted]
> which the other parties would fall back on if they weren't there.
don't worry, they still get stuck in it just as much.
no, 2 in a 4½ and 3 in a 5½ ...
4½ to 1000-1200 there are several and 5½ to 1500, $ 1700 too .. it's a very bad soap opera that we are living here with this pseudo media storm
his comment is objectively true, right?
no one said that's the average price.
holes and a half *
yes bah i stayed there 11 months the time to go to rosemont then hochelaga and for nothing in the world i would not leave my pottery to return to the plateau :)
indeed
the catch is that sometimes the 2nd or 3rd person is a child.
it is frowned upon to have him contribute to the rent before a certain age. 😉
i can't wait to split the rent with my newborn baby in a few months. a good deal osti, i hope he will also do his dishes and cook a little.
it is also objectively true that you can make money by going to the casino.
yes, but that's not popular
in addition, in the video, legault says that the students get together in three or four to pay for housing.
we are in the process of distorting his words in a very crude manner.
lots of people act like that's what he said. even literally the post here reach. there's never even talk of a $ 500 apartment but clearly from a student for accommodation.
the world reach
absoutely!
> the world reach
newspapers lie, as usual
title of the press: "legault estimates that a housing can cost" 500, 600 $ per month ""
it's really down to the level of journalism these days. no better than shitty clickbait everywhere
the newspapers cut the sentence squarely in half to make a sensational headline.
and the world here gets into it, like pogos.
it's seriously embarrassing. literally fake news which takes 2min to deny by checking a super easy to find video .....
it could easily pass as an official leaflet except that there is no name of organization or source. it is very malicious as a maneuver.
you definitely need to let management know. they could even alert the media or the police.
edit: as another editor has shown, the author appears openly on twitter. i hope she will have a little visit.
seriously, talk to the principal / tutor. this is propaganda and should be reported to the police, you are minors, not sure if this is a legal approach.
[the thick one who had the idea] (
don't drop out of school or else you'll find yourself like them with no job and handing out brochures to teenagers on a monday afternoon.
for now a fellow journalist from redditeu has contacted me, i will soon send an email to my school principal to inform me of the situation. i hope i was able to inform people my age who might have fallen for the trap.
what a crunch of human waste. you have to be deeply cellar and retarded to be like that. are so cave, they do it voluntarily for the benefit of a virus. must really run out of cells.
and yes, talk to the administration of your school.
it would be a great opportunity for teachers to do a "debunk" exercise to talk about critical thinking.
oh boy! contact the authorities of your school and it's urgent! of course, it's illegal, you are minors!
wow, these are numbers out of a glove box, i'm not even sure it's legal to distribute this!
if you see her again, ask her as much as possible "to distribute in your class." worse after you consecrate them at the garbage. make him waste his resources!
immunodéprimé a?
hahahahaha
wow.
dude, contact a reporter.
there's really nothing too low for them.
i swear if i hit someone who tries to pass this on to my children i make them eat
like they are trying to brainwash our young astheure ??? isn't that illegal?
these actions must be postponed. report to twitter.com that it endangers people's health.
this is exactly why you go to school and should emphasize a good foundation in science.
isn't this kind of thing illegal ???
you had a good instinct to doubt and not to envy this bullshit! spread the word to your colleagues!
in no particular order.
\ [... \] genotoxicity, the potential integration of vaccine ** l ** genetic material into the genome.
already, the 2 is the same thing, in addition there is a fault.
the part at the beginning, on the back, is written as if the first paragraph was an argument which i find funny. americans have it in droves so it's obviously not safe.
in the myth or reality part, they do not answer the question because obviously it is reality.
it is useful in the warning if you have 2 conditions you can get vaccinated!
in my time, it was raelians who gave panflets at the exit of secondaries. times change, the crackpot not ...
not to mention the microchips we are injected with!
i'm vaccinated (and can't wait to have the 2nd dose) but this leaflet gives me legit anxiety.
it can easily pass for an official leaflet, it is a very clever and vicious psychological maneuver, it is better to warn the authorities
criss that i am sick of the cave world in quebec.
/ remind me when she's gonna get arrested. i provide the popcorn!
bro i have them the vaccine and guess what chu bin correct the only secondary symptoms that i have is an arm pain for 3 days
do not take the vaccine if you have allergies, but without specifying the allergies? i guess i'll die because i'm allergic to hay?
i have the same symptoms after 4 hours of edging.
the vaccine is just a sterilization campaign in fact / s
well let's see
call the police immediately if you see this, it's just illegal.
avoid vaccination if you are immunocompromised !!?! it's a good one there! it's not like they're particularly at risk of getting sick.
cellars
what the woman who did that has no life giving teenage propaganda to teenagers
really terrible
i wonder where these numbers come from ...
im sorry what’s wrong with this pamphlet? this is the exact thing i was told by the nurse when getting my vaccine done. how is this propaganda when it’s the pure truth?
in my time predators offered sweets ...
the same thing happened to me at the saint-laurent skatepark. a man of 30 or 40 walked by and handed out the same pamphlet. really disturbing.
can you talk to someone from the school board? certainly the person distributing this crazy propaganda tried to go to other schools near yours to do the same. you can also tell me what commission i can call them if you have studies.
i think this is super important and frankly i don't know if your principal / teacher is going to speak with the school board maybe the principal is just going to decide to make an announcement in your school.
thank you so much for your maturity, this propaganda is really dangerous for public health.
out of context my dear but still:
- to see = to see
- sense = without ("sense" is like the 5 senses or the sense of the spelling's worries. "without" is what is missing as in the example: i survived my last overdose without help from anyone)
- se = ce (se it is towards oneself: to commit suicide. "this" is demonstrative: this knife, or like that (this context)
someone posted it on the cisss chaudière appalaches facebook page. many people have pointed out how dishonest it is when one party talks about free choice but the other puts in incomplete information ...
you are a student in secondary 5 but otherwise yeah i agree with you
so it is bin describing that a woman is promoting non-immunization in this way. as long as to me, all the arguments for and against vaccines are valid, if they are supported by reliable sources ..... and it is clearly not the case of this madwoman there. if she catches the covid, she'll see that it's not so crazy 😡
if i cross one i slug it. if it's a lady my life partner will freeze her for the cause.
fuck the anti-vaxxers, you bunch of stupid esti.
slap the anti vax
the antivax are ignorant and fucking stupid people lol, hey i said it
being immunocompromised ... can we cure this with anti-immunosuppressants?
that was fucking hilarious. it was hilarious.
a translator, kosse that gives? google translte is free.
addition: in addition, i think about that and this kind of high visibility marketing project usually involves trad, revision, proofreading and 2-3 rounds of proofreading.
telus are really ham i can't believe that a company of this size just published it like that it's so amateurish and it gives so much no confidence imagine how it works internally ..
no matter how hard i try, i can't find what they meant in english.
ayoye did they really tweet that?
telus : kill for the cause!
for quoted françois pérusse. "i would say more that it is a trouduc'teur"
wow it's perfect haha i'm cramped
french courses are not compulsory elsewhere in canada at high school, they just don't take that seriously?
it is so embarrassing !!!
alright, bein i grab my gun and follow the xdd instructions
how ironic to put that with the hashtags #conscient and #pleineconscience.
rarely have i laughed so much at a post. i'm so glad it happened for real.
okay guys, the time has come. i'm going to get the gun and the hammer.
i think i saw this ad in an episode of black mirror
mdr .. nasty gang of not good ones
is the kessé waiting for you? do what he says!
omg it's so awkward
i already don't understand their slogan
i can't even imagine their customer service
as a result. who are we to kill?
😂😂😂 you have to invent terms in french that correspond to the english terms they wanted to translate
r/shittyrobots
when it happened i was working at koodo, my colleagues and i had a good laugh. a real niaserie this one, i will not forget it soon hahahah
it must be a contract made by the gang at primeau lol
phew, we escaped solid this one
hilarious stuffing *
[deleted]
at my job they pay subcontractors to translate and often it's worse than what google translate gives. it's pretty hilarious / depressing.
where i work, there are over 300 people in marketing.
there are two of us for quebec, supported by an in-house translation team.
never something like this would happen: we use this example regularly to show the leaders of our business that it takes a slightly bigger team to manage the hundreds of marketing projects that we put out each year.
i'm one of those non-certified translators, and it really depends on the companies actually. the thing is, it's not enough to be bilingual, i happened to study translation for 3 years even if it was not my main field of study but most of the people recruited are just bilingual without translation skills. they are struggling to find people with my profile, i am much cheaper than a certified translator but still a decent salary and i have just the right skills to do the job.
but telus is really hams, for a company like that it's clearly not complicated to find a french speaker in the company to check a translation. i often receive emails from colleagues in marketing asking me to check translations for specials or the like. then there are some who don't give a shit too.
i just read your addition. very good point; everything suggests that an official slogan should have received all the attention required. the problem i can imagine here is that the authorization came from an english-speaking boss "just bilingual enough". in theory, he speaks french, so his ok is valid. in practice, he sees words, he sees that it sticks to the original, and presto, we move on to the next one.
take a deep breath, grind it. go kill it. ?
no actually it doesn't make more sense hahaha
crush it, kill it?
probablement kill it
un cas de "how do you do, fellow kids?"
yes, and there were others
no, that is clearly someone who put "bilingual" on his cv because he was in an "immersion" program in high school.
[deleted]
i think that was his point.
this was what he was trying to say.
you're jelly zabiz. go to bed
you slowpoke thats the whole point.
i see your cpu is not at the top of the technologist, eh
they are probably not certified translators by the order of translators of quebec.
it is certain that if your job pays a subcontractor the cheapest possible (if this is the case) the result will be up to the price.
a good trad will cost you between 15-20 cents per word for general. not bad more for technical, legal, medical ... etc ..
the trad is expensive and it is sometimes difficult to make people understand.
you have to put in the means if you don't want to be in the bloopers of the week.
i know of a bunch of non-college translators who are excellent. this is clearly not the number one selection criterion.
but it is clear that the majority of people do not understand translation anything and think that being bilingual is enough, or the classic question when you say that you work in translation "how many languages do you speak?" .. none report haha ..
the problem is when people say that google translate exists anyway so translators are no longer useless .. that gives the example of this thread.
seriously, i have often seen teams of 3-4 senior translators spend an hour on a 3 word cereal box slogan. we give 3-4 choices with backtranslation.
someone really dropped the bullet at telus, praying it didn't come from a translation company.
yes that makes sense. grind is like "perseverer" pi "kill it" is to make a mess. like the other guy says "crush it" that could have done it too.
edit: ground yourself like having both feet on the ground.
probably ground yourself instead of grind it. it's a lot more common as an expression.
you had to read beyond words, of course. question of context, of spirit. of course, no automatic translator is capable of doing this.
but why would the grind it become grind?
it can't be "it" it would have to be grind yourself
yeah but "kill what". lol
esti that it is cellar. i love that.
it brings back memories of the small school.
that damn balloon there. responsible for how many elbow injury happened lol
seeing the comments, i realize that i'm the only one who likes kin-ball! ah ah ah ah
the kinball at the olympic games when
i had completely erased this sport from my memory !! i don't miss high school physical education classes, that's for sure 😅
just looking at this i hear the sound the ball made when you hit it and i still feel it hit my face and twist my neck. good times.
oh boy you just brought back the good old days of elementary school. it was a good time when i had nothing to worry about ... anyways good meme
but the dark red team already has the ball ... aren't we supposed to name the team that should catch it?
everyone is talking about elementary school.
i have known 2 guys in their thirties who practiced this sport in a semi-competitive way.
i try not to judge them. lol
holy shit i miss the omnikin
my hearing is quite pocket-sized and i remember that while playing, i often heard "omnikin ..... nbjrjbj". there aren't many sports like that in which you also test your talent to hear people screaming in a gym.
hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
ahahaha it's really good! thanks for this meme
take the kin-ball back immediately.
this damn "sport".
i don't know how many balloons i broke, at one point i just stopped counting
it just made me burst out laughing!
thank you, the day was really off to a bad start ...
i played kin-ball again in college, during the student festival competitions, and then i found out that there was an adult league in my town. the guy who organized it strangely knew a lot about it and taught us lots of strategies.
if you know of a kin-ball league in quebec, i want to know.
ark, that reminds me of bad memories. i broke my teeth in elementary school because of this shit sport.
it's excellent i'm cramped hahahaha
omg the nostalgia ... ahhhh only beautiful memories
at 5:00 p.m. we're going to have it in front of you
too many...
no, i liked it so much!
i had already inquired if garage league teams exist. turns out that it's really not popular as a game.
bro, i have a 2005 mosquito regional championship gold medal. that doesn't bother me.
two years ago, i was in an adult kin-ball league, it was so hot! it was not the same game as in primary haha we played with knee pads to pitch ourselves to the ground.
don't worry, i've been doing it for 12 years (8 years in competitive) in i never lost the flame. it pisses you off now
i had played in primary school but afterwards he no longer had a league near us ahah i'm happy to know that there are people who like it ahah
in elementary school i had taken a course for one season. it's fun in ti ti.
not for the next ones, omnikin could have an insulting meaning in chinese and we wouldn't know.
i was going to comment on something similar. hahahaha "i remember the noise it made when it happened to my face"
you twist your elbow upside down by hitting the ball with poor technique.
it also reminds me of the kind of parachute. there was someone in the center and had to hide below ...
cue in the scrum person who named his own team, there was always at least one per game.
this is called passing the buck.
you have known 2 *** legends ***.
don't you mean "holy caca" instead? ^ (tokebak)
it seems you haven't played tchoukball 2 years online, lool
i played there for 1 year in the competitive one. although it sounds funny as a sport, it's really demanding.
dude the ball is pout like a pillow, how did you do?
we agree that it's no better than a puck in the face, not a big sport where there is no risk for your teeth!
i sprained my index finger on the first day of secondary 1 ..
and yet, when i was in high school, i was told that it was going to be popular like hockey and that it would soon be at the olympics. 20 years later, it's still not at the olympics.
depending on where you live, it can have some! i played a lot in the last few years, when i lived in gatineau and the laurentians. nothing in abitibi on the other hand!
i also did competitions, we did not rank in the top, but there were a lot of people cursed.
that's what's the fun of making slides and pitching everywhere haha
our friend the covid must not help
the noise*? or the vibration of your skull?
yass ahah
> & knuckles
i am sold.
in quebec we say the trebuchet
wololooooo
aoe4 is available since yesterday
fuck the catapults.
visit r/trebuchetmemes
in could use this for public transport you catapult yourself from ballista to ballista to your destination ......... the kids will love it
excellent initiative, i can only congratulate her.
on the other hand, although the trebuchet is the ultimate weapon (well in front of the catapult), it will be necessary to find a more adequate name because a catapult is used to catapult but a trebuchet is used to ... "trip"?
i have cross posted on r / trebuchetmeme.
i vote for u / cacafactor and his social project!
majority cacafactor
how is sudden acceleration / deceleration handled to ensure safety? and what is the flow of cars per hour? and the noise? and how do the trucks cross? i want to see the napkin on which the calculations were made. it's a good first draft though, i see a lot of potential.
if dante from devil may cry adds, i'm on board.
can you put on a ballista also for express journeys?
it works well for antivaxes too
bboomer
no way? no way!
yes, but does the cost take into account the mattress to land?
if knuckles l'enchilada gets on board, so do i.
should have left on the terrace of lévis instead
the "i enjoy" of the pre-broken egg with legault's face 👍🏻
sick!
probably the best pot of the year. good job!
why tractor vs f150?
the legault "send home" solution
i find it more credible than the "light rail"
as long as it is built with eco-responsible wood by qualified quebec workers, i am 100% in agreement!
i think that this project can be proudly carried by the gosselin team, it is within their reach.
can we also use it instead of the tram?
featuring dante from the devil may cry series
the trebuchette
oh nice! are you good?
we can call it a landing stage since the world will take a landing
if only so many thoughts had been brought to the real 3rd link project.
hd remix 2.1
for them, you aim for the river instead of the shore.
lol just joking unless…
the suvs are all rated 5 stars in safety apparently, you have to put that to the test
there are just the moumounes who take the mattress
why not put the tram in the middle of the river?
with new funky mode!
one more third link rejected !!
we stumbled
i can't gamer with my old laptop
i played a bit and i really like it. similar to aoe2 but with civs having more differences.
simply brilliant.
new funky mode
at $ 50,000 (say) the suv, we could give about 150,000 to the unlucky guy who would still be stuck with their woke prius.
i've been practicing my 360noscope for too long, i wouldn't have a choice.
prius? in lévis?
probably someone from the north shore who will work in the desjardins offices in lévis!
"tax return"
i owe money every rip year
or verbally attack the salesperson at rona's who gently explains to you that no treated wood could have been used.
in addition, plywood is ironically less damaging to the environment than bitcoin.
a tax return is a one-year 0% loan to the government.
is it "just" $ 8? shit i should go fill up on 2x4s before summer
tabarnak i went to laugh in the timmies
i always get a big tax refund.
because i force myself paid too much. if i can work with the money that's left over, a return is better than having it paid off when you've gotten used to too high a standard of living.
j'ail two
i have a budget of -600 $
do you have tax returns?
j'a pogne poh
there is otherwise you can always put all your chips in #scrn monday when it opens
[
add the iron pi you have the winning trio
requests to r / wallstreetbets
serious? i have a deck to redo and a garden to build this spring ... are you making that expensive from wood to sth?
this is the kind of content i am looking for here
a gpu would also have been a good answer
**edith**
[this article] ( talks about a price increase of 7% compared to last year under construction. we are talking more about 200-300% for certain computer components.
there is such a shortage of microprocessors that even the automotive industry is greatly slowed down.
also, bad tag for the pole poo.
if there are economists who are following the issue, i would have a question: does the quebec lumber industry benefit a little from this surge in prices at least?
several report that the lumber yards are full and that the distributors are doing it on purpose to raise the prices (it deserves an investigation, if this is true it is an illegal cartel), but what is happening with the production?
gamestop is still relatively inexpensive, but hurry!
i like it the tax season because i get 3 months salary at once.
sooo... $lpx?
"remainder of pcu after tax"
[deleted]
i like that owing tax, i find it better than lending money for free to the government. of course, for those who are not putting too much money aside, it must be tough.
an additional $ 10k voucher every fucking year for quebec only.
thank you for supporting the quebec economy. a few years ago i thought it was important not to pay taxes. now i'm happy to pay them because it helps people who need it.
i'm happy to pay school taxes even if i have no children because i don't want to be surrounded by idiots like in the united states!
serious. it's been a really long time since i had this tax return.
i am self-employed. i've been slipping through my cracks for several years and people forget to ask me for installments.
it seems that in 2020, they decided to get my number. it appears that the provincial and the federal have said that a pandemic could certainly not have an impact on the financial situation of people and it is therefore an excellent idea to calculate the installments according to the amount of tax of the previous year for 2020.
so, i had to pay the 2019 taxes at the end of the summer and the amount of the 4 installments of 2020 in 2 installments rather than 4 in september and december. worse the first of 2021 on march 15.
i sent all of our papers and accounts to the accountant on monday morning. in the email, and i'm absolutely serious here, i left the following note for the accountant: "if i have to pay a good amount more for 2020 (like $ 1000 and more), let me know before giving me the amount, question whether i have time to wedge a bottle of wine, take a xanax or lobotomize myself. "
a tax return. hahahahahah.
my dream of a furnished balcony has flown for 2021.
and no need to let go of the gpu market either with plywood
yes but it is not the same thing. you could run your asics at bitcouine on a nuclear / hydro / solar / wind reactor and that would be a lot less damaging than doing massive deforestation like we did 60 years ago. there are clearcut regulations these days, but the crypto industry is still in the wild west mode.
do you think that mastercard worse wall street and the big banks run their system on potatoes? i would rather pay the price in electricity for a decentralized, democratic system with no censorship, confiscation, border and the strongest grid in history. worse in terms of consumption, it comes more and more from a renewable source, often from excess energy that would be wasted. in a way, it is a stimulus for innovation in green energies.
you are wasting money doing this.
just open an account in another financial institution or on an investment platform like wealthsimple and make automatic transfers. i recognize my luck, so i have the opportunity to be able to save a lot, but in the end, i live on 30% of my income and the rest is invested in stocks. even if the money is semi-liquid and therefore accessible to provide a higher standard of living, i am not going to sell apple stock to pay myself for a pizza craving, say. contrary to another comment, i think it's still good to have access to the money somehow, especially if you don't have an emergency fund. in the end, you make a 0% loan to the government.
bin, we are not all investors or entrepreneurs ...
fill up your rrsp and you will have some ... not very complicated
[deleted]
it’s expensive to drink these days
worse graphics cards!
chu more capable of them other serious ones. elon musk's booty gang criss who live so much in their bubble crunch that they don't realize that most people can't put $ 1000 a week in pocket stocks that will just enrich them.
at least three times more expensive than last year ...
<3
are you an accountant and filling out people's declarations?
it's not always the best option.
fuck the rrsps. i hate that not having access to my money.
or those who can \ * t save money.
it is true that everyone at $ 15 an hour they are cellar in criss not to put money aside ...
faudrait que bitcoin switch de proof of work à proof of wood.
well no, the plywood market is already shifted because of the explosion in demand, as for gpus
bitcoin does not mine with gpus
it's not fine, but i laughed.
usually the tarlas are confident, indeed.
on the one hand, i'm sad that his name is made fun of.
on the other, she squealed her face three feet high on a banner as if we didn't care that she was the store manager of a grocery store.
tsu
omg 🤦🏻‍♂️ not funny but i laughed too. there is a real estate agent who often advertises on st-laurent near the 40 ... the name is roughly: 'moche shlomo' .. i can't read it other than in a bad way 🤦🏻‍♂️ 🤦🏻‍♂️
i don't have the ref. care to explain?
it is not a montage it exists. perron by birth. edmonton.
it looks like a poster from the superstore show lol.
she is confident this tarla. i guess she doesn't know what her name means in quebec french
as long as it's not in quebec (and therefore in english with us)
the classic pose of both hands on the hips.
can’t say my french is good enough to understand anything meaningful here but working at loblaws is dogshit company is trash through and through
do you exist a sub / cringe in quebec? 😄
bin no! its can't calm down!
fugathfrechppl
well no it's not possible
pffff! okay tarla. into yourself,much 🙄😂
self-confidence is important.
lol she won the right to change her first and last name for free, besides her name insulting her he mistreated her, these wondered these not a montage so much that these just perfect in the sound
jerry
ri*
are you sure of that?
there is a big sign of the same in my maxi so it may be more a directive that comes from above than a choice of individual managers
we can get rid of it.
but if you want to work in a grocery store, manage a maxi, if you perform, it pays off.
like $ 100,000 and more paying, with bonuses.
for retail it is very good
there's an agent in my area called [salah sedqi] ( html) and the joke with my friends is that his mother didn't know who the father was.
and its slogan is "salah bien sold". hat.
not just on st-laurent, it has a city-emard too, we were sure it was a joke the first time we saw it!
i believe this is due to her first name: tarla and her last name confident.
so a confident tarla.
according to [ danemark( a "tarla" is
> a dizzy person, who does not think before speaking, stupid, incapable or incompetent.
confident tarla: d
i didn't catch her at first either. tarla is not really a term in my vocabulary. i say more "cave" haha
definition: injurious. adjective. idiot.
example: why did you do that? you are really tarla ...
65
6
definition: injurious. underdeveloped. the ninth piglet in a litter, the smallest, the weakest and the last to have access to a nipple.
example: more tarla than that, you die.
do you have his address too?
reality check
it's to make yourself bigger and gain confidence. it is taught squarely in sales classes. it's literally the human equivalent of a lizard fanning its ruff to intimidate a predator.
worse the human equivalent of a lizard which squirts boiling blood through its eye holes on its attackers (yes, it does exist), well let's put lucie laurier on facebook.
tarla = dummy/simpleton    
confident = confident
confident tarla
it’s hilarious for us. sounds like a comedy skit fake name.
yeah, it's / r / quebec 😅
does it smell like toast in your house? because i think you're doing a stroke.
golay
boulet
thanks, i corrected!
sorry for the mistake.
otherwise, they would not speak and we would not know that they are.
looks confident.
ah, yes-oue-oue-oué. request to crapoutte.
[deleted]
lol
me too .. the return of rbo
feel even more stupid.
proud mongolian?
thank you!
her mother's maiden name?
erection: o
asti if there is enough granny it will become true
lol
south post r / canada lollll
where is the megathread for the elections?
blockmajority! ! !
she is good
yves - françois, yves - françois, yves - françois, yves - françois
very good grandma, well done.
oh yeah!!!
we want to be represented, we vote bloc! we're constipated and we need a chimney sweep, trudeau is waiting for you.
ah stephen, that was his best.
to be honest, i am always excited to receive the bloc's brochure to squeal it in recycling.
what's the deal with the bloc? i am zero down on having the old leather powder pusher as prime minister.
voting for the bloc ensures trudeau's re-election .. so i am not voting for the bloc.
a joke that comes to us from stephen harper
uwu
༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽ つ yves-françois blanchet brings us to glory ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽ つ
i'm glad you find it funny.
it took me a while on photoshop for the details. : d
this is not an article from the globe and mail so it will be deleted
you go-y!
imagine worshiping a sexual assailant ...
how much does an erection cost
it is always a highlight of mail collection… and recycling is important.
christ who doesn't have to know politics to say that
the bloc will never win the elections due to the fact that it is only quebecers who can vote for them. the people who vote for them are mainly to represent quebec well at the federal level, to give quebecers more power. legit, i am not a supporter of the bloc, but yves-françois is still a no worse politician for quebec.
because we'll be better served with o'toole?
* ensures a minority government
vote the bloc = liberal minority, vote for another party = liberal majority.
canadians are not ready for another erection.
i will never forget to hear live on tv * "a second erection before the first is over!" *
thank you for this quote, mr. harper
qwq
༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽ つ yves-françois blanchet brings us to glory ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽ つ
i don't know if the bloc has candidates elsewhere in canada?
to the underground biker bar toilets *
it's horny
very well done
the charges started on a facebook group and they never got further than that.
there is nothing wrong
he could technically win a minority government with very, very special circumstances.
probably ! cristie the liberals have doubled canada's debt in 1 fucking year.
no there is not.
i must be in agreement
between an anonymous victim and the former manager of eric lapointe, i am more inclined to believe the victim. i know he's an alleged abuser, but i don't want to take the chance of putting up with a sexual abuser. i voted for a bloc in 2019, hesitating a lot between the bloc and the ndp. this election choice is simple.
the bloc cannot form the government
blocminority?
ethnic vote here.
the only thing i understand about politics in canada is that the conservatives are wrong.
especially for quebec.
in addition, their media strategy is slowly becoming that of the republicans with the brilliant message "the others are wrong".
global pandemic ...
we find ourselves in one of the best positions around the world when it comes to vaccination, so yes the debt has increased a lot, but i'm pretty sure we would be in deep shit up to our necks with the conservatives who act to avoid touch the debt.
are you talking about during the biggest pandemic of the last century when we had low death rates compared to countries similar to ours?
debt is a tool, if it's used for the right things it's okay to increase it.
mmmmm doubt that
the sweet return of the lil bags of poop abandoned in the snowbanks .. i love spring.
btw, this is a prodigy from a [valentine's ad] (
this squirrel has spent a fucking evening!
people for whom spring is the obviously preferred season not live in a land of snow, or at best in the countryside. spring in town is horrible until may.
i drove on 15 north last week and in the middle of the freeway there was a frozen fox on a snowbank. all the snow around had melted, but not under the unfortunate canine that rested on a grotesque death mound.
what the fuck
for my part it is the noise of the modified silencers and the flushing of the engines over 250 meters between 2 stops.
you forgot the warming fag ends!
💩💩💩💩💩💩
you forgot all the tank poo, but basically i love it!
it just lacks the cigarette botch. or is it because it's all year round?
i can never say it enough: well done.
the new fragrance breezes spring.
cigarette botches are missing
beautiful alexandrian
goodness, sorry. i was lazy and should have typed cigarette stubs.
what in the sweet fuck.
it is not a good photo
man, that messes me up. in my alley there is a kind of pallet wall. the world leaves their bag of dog poop along the wall. like there must have you 7-8 bags of shit.
crisse you did 90% of the job. you checked your dog shit, you took out your tit-bag, you took the mard in your hands via the bag, you tied your bag, you probably walked with your bag of mard in your hands . but there ... there ... there it is urgent. no garbage cans in sight. and you are not going to bring your dog's mard home with you for sure!
fak you do a good civic action and you leave your bag of mard in the snow at the foot of the pallet wall in my alley.
sorry for the rant, but thank you, it feels good.
some people are just pigs. in the park the other day, a garbage can was still condemned for the winter with its cover and tiewrap, being next to a path not cleared of snow.
lots of dirty assholes had left at least 4 bags of doggie on the lid.
why are you shitting in little bags?
in autumn, in this neighborhood, we find these bags in the branches of the bushes after the leaves have fallen.
🤣🤣 thank you it's even more funny with the reference!
wish
campaign with the sugar season, there is not much better!
in addition i have a puppy who wants to put everything in his mouth. he almost picked up a rotten squid the other day.
not what you're talking about, in my part of town i love spring, it doesn't smell of taint and it's not tanr dirtier than usual
i like it to fart ice cream and make little paths for the water
i still like spring. the heat, the long days, then it's not that difficult to find places where there is not so much waste to take a walk, finally without big boots and big coat
in gatineau, spring is fantastic. certainly there is some waste but that does not spoil the joy of finally having heat!
the city is not fun in winter, the city is not fun in spring ... so, is it just summer worth it?
pic or didnt happen
poor bug anyway: c
and their damn shit music, we don't want to hear it, you have no taste!
to see the negroes i think that there are a lot of people who don't know that "fag" is an english slang for "cigarette" lol.
isn't the poop on the dead squirrel enough poo?
it is surely a person who does it several times. before there was no risk in my street and there since my neighbor got hold of a dog there are everywhere.
it is less worse to leave the mard on the ground than to leave it in a bag on the ground. at least the poop is biodegradable and feeds the grass.
haha not so much! osti that i feel your pain! i have the same reasoning every time i see one!
there's a stack of 3-4 bags of direct dog poop next to my neighbor's trash can down my stairs in my alley ... the edge of the road (it's worse masks worse bundles of cigarettes) i don't understand the world.
there is an innocent in our house, he ties the bag after the branches of a large shrub. it's on the city lot so no one picks them up. i imagine he is quite funny.
no sorry, asti, we should shoot them tabarnak. when i was in hochelaga the amount of mustard that we found on the sidewalk in the spring, phenomenal. instead of giving them almonds to his without drawings they should be prohibited from having dogs from the second offense.
it is true that it is a good idea to order a garbage can in the winter. city employees would surely have too many grievances if they had to do their job, but in winter.
you don't shit in little bags yourself?
not if you have a phenomenal amount of tourists coming in and screwing up. the amount of grandfathers blocking traffic these past few days is just too much. yesterday, i rided on the astinet brakes i stuck to his ass in a zone 50 (from 116 to chelin de le montagne on ozias leduc. not the only one, when the weather is fine and people come to the mountains c almost tlt l traffic jam), more than 10 cars behind him no way to overtake and it's not as if he couldn't see them in the rearview mirror.
i like the little gentlemen of a certain retirement age who make little gulls on the edge of the sidewalk so that the water goes to the canal. i find it cute!
the anglos are mean, but rubbish is a bit hard.
i second! i really like to walk in the small paths in the spring because it is neither too hot nor too cold.
i might still have it on my dashcam, but it will be blurry as hell. i’ll try my best to deliver guys.
mazen, in addition he had to be hit by a tank, end up on the shoulder and be pushed by the scratch in the middle of the highway.
we could change pierre-eliott-trudeau airport to léo-major airport
> re-liberated the city of zwolle again
... probably saying to yourself all along "i have to do everything here, calisse" ...
"canadian"
leo major fought all his life for independence and even refused certain orders from english officers.
the rambo québécois !!!!
the hero that the collective conscience of french canada needs!
it reminds me of what i saw in the english-speaking media
when a quebec company / person does something good: "canadian company ..."
when a quebec company / person does something wrong: "quebec company ..."
he did everything in one year at 23.
he received two dcms (distinguished conduct medal, the second most important medal of the british army at the time), he refused one because he considered that the general who was going to give him was incompetent.
he is the only one to have received the dcm in two different wars. the second comes from the korean war, where he had to call for mortar fire extremely close to his position. apparently he was so close that the soldiers handling the mortars could hear shell explosions coming from his radio as leo ordered the positions.
this guy was a real legend.
the city of zwolle has not forgotten!
machine!
his son said in an interview that he wore sneakers instead of deployed army boots haha. what a man!
here is a documentary on its history
[
what is this obsession with the city of zwolle?
as a sniper if he saw that his target was not wearing ss or nazi insignia (thus a simple german soldier), he would only put a bullet in their shoulder instead of killing them, if possible.
they just removed the post.
wtf
the most unsung hero !!
is there a movie about this guys feats? if not there should be. i'd be so into watching that.
the book on aubible is really worth it!
i got it as a gift and learned so much. the guy is a fucking raw i don't catch what it means there is no movie on him yet!
it doesn't even talk about his exploits in the vietnam war haha
i don't know why this guy isn't better known than that.
little known, his baptistery reads "joseph chad leo major".
the baddest of the bad ass. i discovered his story. go read about him. ya did a lot more than that !! he fought in the kore war too. he was in charge of a hill. the place where they beat more than 2000 chinese soldiers. he commanded the air strikes so pocket-sized that the guys heard the air strikes whistle when he called and had a hard time understanding. 13 canadians held the hills at night. go read this. it's crazy. but for the number it may be i am off a bit. i say that by hand.
the story of his little tour in korea is missing;)
george frederick "buzz" beurling was our most famous airforce pilot ace of all time. he was jewish quebecer. known in ontario, britain, completely unknown in montreal. no recognition for heroes here....only politicians, celine and fathers of race car drivers.
holy cow, from his wikipedia article: 
> born on january 23, 1921, in [new bedford, massachusetts]( to french-canadian parents, major moved with his family to montreal before his first birthday. due to a poor relationship with his father, he moved to live with an aunt at age 14. this relationship combined with a lack of available work led major to join the canadian army in 1940 to prove to his father that he was "somebody to be proud of".
he was born in the us though.
i don't believe this guy's stories for two seconds.
it's just too big to be credible, plus there's never more than one witness to his exploits ... himself.
we can change everything for leo major.
or an army base like longue-pointe. but i agree. i find it a shame he isnt in my kids history lessons. i switched from english to french elementaries for my kids, and it shocked me the difference. i used to go in in full uniform for a half day rememberance day event for the english board schools, and when i volunteered to do the same in my kids french school i was told they do not do that. they offered if i wanted to, i could rent the school in the evening for an after school event.
i second.
support.
all-in!
no. trudeau is a major figure in canadian politics.
no at the time people weren't crying like us when they were babies. they were doing the job and that's all.
> and even refused certain orders from english officers.
"what do you mean, you won't do it, you fucking piece of..."
"sir, that's léo major."
"...jay swee daysolay, monsieur major, carry on..."
in fact no, that would be a legend. it would rather be his wife who was proudly independent.
[
thank you, a little respect!
esti, what a man.
the myth of the separatist leo major is easily debunked by the fact that quebec is still a province of canada.
rambo is the american leo major.
yeah i find it weird that we give a nickname of a hero of wwii and the korean war based on a veteran of the vietnam war
the hero english canada would like to have!
the scout unit he trained for the korean war all wore sneakers too.
thanks, very interesting!
maybe he was looking for gainz.
ok, i’ll see myself out now.
i was reading the memoirs of a soviet general, and he said that during the siege of stalingrad the most conscientious soldier he had ever met in his career never aimed to kill, but to injure, simply because of an injured person is a lot more urgent and annoying than taking care of a dead ...
at 100m with a lee enfield jte confirms that you cannot aim precisely. you aim for the middle of the chest and you hope to hit something.
you're not alone, my friend.
korean war. not from vietnam.
quebecer and sovereignist
a chad of course.
seen on another recipe: can i substitute arsenic for powdered sugar?
ahahaha me it's when i see the world put 1 star and describe that they have substituted 7 out of 9 ingredients for things that are not even close, more are like "this recipe is not edible!".
sometimes i would like to be able to answer ginette to ask her what she knows if this recipe is good, since she i didn't really make it 😂
at the same time on ricardo at least heap not the life story that comes before what heap needs.
genre pate a pizza ricardo
\ - mix 1 cup of water + 1 tsp of yeast, gives 5 min. mix in 2 cups of flour. leave to stand for 30min.
allrecipes:
same case except that it is preceded by the biography of the lady who describes to us in 45 paragraphs how this pizza dough saved her couple and cured them of aids.
does it freeze?
speaking of ricardo ... at the iga in frozen products, his cannelloni sauce rosé and his mexican casserole are pretty good. 5-6 minutes in the microwave, thank you good evening, in the frozen section, tough to beat.
the cannelloni should be left to stand 4-5 minutes later, it thickens the sauce (which, when coming out of the microwave, looks liquid, but it thickens quickly as if by magic). seriously, that makes good lunches prepared quickly.
worse, michel downstairs killed his whole family
if it was really ricardo, it would be written in big best in the title just to make sure you click on it in google results!
"yesterday evening, i cooked this rice pudding recipe. nobody liked the recipe especially my children rubyrose and michael-aristotle. anyway, nobody likes rice pudding at home. so, i'll give you a star. very bland in taste. i don't recommend this recipe especially for people who don't like rice pudding. "
ricardo, if i don't have apples, can i replace them with celery?
is she a quebec artist? do you have a link?
the children liked it with lots of ketchup !!! yum-yum
"can i put orange juice instead of egg yolks?"
finally a meme that my mother will understand.
i blew air nasally in ostifi
my (true) favorite comment "it says a cup of flour and a cup of sugar but the weights in grams are not the same. why ?????"
(the best)
the best comment i saw on ricardo's site was on a chili recipe. in the recipe, it says to add a cup of strong coffee.
the lady grinded coffee and added it to the recipe ... she never understood that she had to make strong coffee. but what a jug.
you can give 1 star lol
r/ididnthaveeggs
i have already seen: can you replace the butter on the cake with avocado?
it'll be good when cooked ...> \ _ <'
[deleted]
it seems to me that a little vitriole is going to be good.
noooooooooooooooooooon!
it's better with peppercorns
jehane benoit had an arsenic cookie recipe!
edith: my mistake, not with arsenic but with ammonia!
> since i didn't really do it
are you ok are you able to lift your arms? has one side of your face sagged?
worse, it is worse when the ingredients are not listed, but integrated into the biography .. in the middle of the preparation of 12 pages. cannot take just a screenshot for a recipe.
ricardo's "best" recipes may not taste the best, but clearly the best recipes to follow.
you can use this site to just have the recipe: 
i have a worse one: my girlfriend gets recipes on youtube and follows the video to make the recipe. if the recipe is in the description it's not too bad, but it's not always the case.
"so now we start by frying some onion, garlic and paprika until fragrant, then add the chicken and brown it for a bit"
me who hasn't even pulled out the onion yet. : |
my favorite presentation is that of cooking for engineers.
[sample recipe] (
found from ricardo's reddit account.
rachel
mi-shell mi-cuit
ahahaha tabarnak that reminds me once i checked a recipe for baby back ribs, the ingredients are like coke, brown sugar, ketchup, you know the kind; clearly a recipe for sweet ribs. i've seen at least 1 person put 1 star and say "i don't like sweet ribs, they have to be spicy" - okay, don't make the 100% sugar 0% spice recipe, god.
rubyrose and michael-aristotle ahahahaahaha
well, yes ginette, however you will then have a celery pie and not an apple pie.
thank you,
richard.
damn, i forgot to refer to the artist, sandrine deloffre. she is french. you have to see his [instagram] ( or his [facebook] ( it's worth the detour; she has a beautiful [cynical humor] (
one star ... the chocolate cake tastes of oranges. not edible!
you can.
whether it's a good plan is another matter.
wtf, 1968 ?! the entertainment was much too good for the time .. i googled to confirm because i couldn't believe it haha. wow.
ah? good...
or the roommates version: 
😂 that's what happens when i fat finger on my cell by changing my turn of phrase 2-3 times without really rereading it. i'm ok, i promise 👌
wooooosh
it's not vrm funny nitpick on a word in 2 paragraphs
his recipes are very convoluted (especially the recipes of inspiration from the world). but if you stick to the quantities and the recipe, you can't go wrong.
how cool is that. thank you!
if only ahhaha!
romanichel
🤣 i could not
[quality animation has been around for a very long time.] ( i think the big difference is that the more exposure people have to animation from the time [was the weekly tv animation that was on a very tight budget and cut a lot of corners.] ( older animation was of lower quality is increased tenfold by the fact that technology allows today's animated tv series to have [very impressive animation even on a more or less limited budget] ( / /www.youtube.com/watch?v=8k9xh3cdg1c). but in reality, animators have always been very impressive when given the right budget and enough time to draw the hundreds of thousands of frames that make up the average movie.
fantasia was released 28 years earlier, and it's even better!
it was hard to get wings when all the restaurants went bankrupt.
she is very funny thanks for the good joke hahah
legault has a bad head, my faith😂
barbecue sauce not included.
clean even there. on the other hand, legault saw things that were not catholic. what is ste face la ???
it could at least be quebec bbq wings ...
françoailesego!
hahahahahaha! damn i hope i get a free award soon so i can give it to you !!!
ah ah ah !! she is great!!! put air filters in schools mr. education is a priority !!!
well no, we just have to declare the sports cage as a place of worship. it wouldn't be far from the truth either.
looks like he wants me to sit on those knees.
it looks like the easter bunny
amen
it's so funny
it's not for nothing that we call the canadian "la sainte flanelle"!
it's not so facetious what i'm saying. i really find it hard to see a marked difference between the two.
holy shit the yukon ?! are there really european communities or is it like 2 swedish families who have immigrated in the last 300 years?
i expected to see the belgians in quebec.
what are icelanders doing in manitoba ...
the yukon?
according to wikipedia there are like 40,000 people in the yukon, that's what must be skewing the data.
nb i am only sharing! i am not the author!
so, i'm not surprised!
quebecers are affiliated with france
surprise
who the fuck is going to live in the yukon, i thought there were like 20 people living there
my catholic high school in ontario deffinately had a fuck ton of italians haha
hello, quebec. this is saskatchewan there.
i see that we are see!
please send us some good poutine.
respectfully,
your neighbour,
saskatchewan
no nova scotia?
british columbia and spain?
am i the only one that surprises?
ah, yes. my comrades from manitoba.
im surprised quebec doesn’t have greece
*is greek and from ontario*
this map checks out
🤔🤔🤔🤔
yet the swiss are cool ...
i would go live in nunavut me it seems lost and far from modern complications. there are other problems there too haha
spaniards in british columbia? now that’s interesting.
nobody in nova scotia or new brunswick?
i would have thought that belgium and romania also in addition to france
is it serious or is it the american definition of "origin"?
everyone badtrip on the yukon and i am just surprised that bc is latino.
i am surprised that we are not the province with the most belgians too ... well :)
instead of quebec, can you put plateau mont-royal?
i had the family tree made on the male side of my mother, and both sides lead to normandy. i have a chance to be a viking descendant eheh!
if i trust the government, we're all in the red, aren't we? for no reason tho
ontario be like: kurwa!
tbrnk balkan europe likes saskatchewan
it makes sense, my parents are portuguese and i am from ontario .. and i also grew up with so many porkchops
apparently no moldavians, montenegrins, or kosovars have ever set foot in canada...
many people immigrated to the yukon thanks to the gold rush
yes it is true that in the yukon the percentage rises quickly with the arrival of 30-100 people 🙃
the graph represents the province with the highest percentage of a certain nationality.
in the yukon, there are 275 finns / 35,110 inhabitants = 0.8%. in ontario, there are 76,755 / 13,242,160 = 0.6%. however, the yukon has the highest percentage so this is the one indicated. considering that the population of the yukon is small, a small population of the same nationality has a larger effect on the total percentage.
the map only shows the province with the highest percentage of a certain nationality relative to the population of its own province.
a small text that i found on this subject: [ chauffage( .
flemings outnumber walloons four to one and are found across the country, with a particularly important bloc in southwestern ontario and in manitoba. walloons have gravitated to québec and to small francophone communities across the western provinces. this belgian-origin population is spread unevenly across the country. in comparative terms québec’s share of belgian-origin population declined in the 1980’s, while ontario’s share increased and also benefited from inter-provincial migration. some of these immigrants and migrants went to ontario’s tobacco belt, but the greater number went to the commercial and industrial greater toronto region. elsewhere in canada, communities followed the general trends of urbanization and occupational mobility. there is a large concentration of about 43 percent of the total in ontario, and québec and manitoba each have about 17 percent of the total belgian-origin population. this population is more rural than urban, except in québec, where it is overwhelmingly concentrated in the montréal region, and in british columbia, where more than half live in urban communities. in manitoba, one third are found in the greater winnipeg region, while in ontario they are concentrated in the southwestern counties – up to 1921 in essex and kent, but more recently also in norfolk county and metropolitan toronto.
i am one and my father too;)
a good number of franco-manitobans have belgian ancestors. i met several of them when i was living there. there is even a "belgian club" on boulevard provencher in saint-boniface.
this is one of the things i learned while living there. i expected franco-manitobans to be mainly descendants of quebeckers living in the prairies in the 19th and 20th centuries, and there are indeed, but the colonizing societies, often openly catholic, had also recruited french-speaking europeans. like the swiss and the belgians.
there are a lot of flemings in ontario
what is anyone crazy in manitoba?
don't you know the town of gimli? largest icelandic community outside of iceland
many people have commented on the town of gimli, but not why they are there. in fact it is that in the last centuries, the islands knew important episodes of famine since the island cannot support the current population without imports, even worse when natural disasters (volcano in particular) kill the cattle that 'they own. so during these famines, canada took in several thousand icelanders and put them where there was land to donate.
[new iceland!](
they live in gimli and have an icelandic festival every year. many scandinavians in manitoba and the american midwest (minnesota, michigan, wisconsin especially).
many people immigrated there in search of gold
it is in percentage, so an individual has more impact, i doubt that there are particularly many of these communities of european origin in the yukon!
i would go and live there. it's so beautiful.
i can see the link with the ethnic groups that are settled there.
they also signed an agreement with the philippines and recruit a lot of francophones to say ... i'm not surprised
i also don't understand. it seems to me that the european origins of the people of british columbia are mostly ... british.
you're joking, but the two communist parts of canada (yes there are 2 lol) participate in the elections in my neighborhood in manitoba. and our union strikes are second only to those in quebec. ;)
do you have the impression that there are more descendants of greek immigrants than french settlers in quebec?
saying hi from the balkans!
it's not even 24 hours and i'm already tired
ostia of legault incompetent ... how come that we have not yet a holiday for the cat festival ???
how do you know if someone has a cat? don't worry, he'll tell you soon enough.
i didn't think my photo was going to be a trend! haha
it's a change in the posts of covid, separatist, qs worse of duty!
one day of chatting per week - i'm voting for that!
mods flop because there are "low quality posts"
but a day when the sub is fucking inundated with photos of cats, well there is not a single one who says what.
frontenac, majority block, winnie the poo, cats, etc. well yes guys, sometimes there are small ephemeral trends that pop. you will survive.
we don't care about your cats, thank you good evening rrr
#teamdoggo
i don't trust anyone who doesn't like cats.
it's the internet.
here is chat and porn.
if you want something else you can try the reality, there are good reviews.
do you know the ccc?
[
alright i just got up that i missed ??
at least now we know who smells the litter on this sub.
it's not like r / quebec is that interesting without the cats.
but i don't think it makes it better
three little cats, three little cats, three little cats, cats, cats ...
all because of / u / gablemonde
huh there are people who posted chats?
edit: oh i see
the average redditor: tk facebook eh! really a mardy platform! i deleted mine by the way!
this same redditor today: hihi here is my cat!
it laughs at the boomers but you are the next gérard and thérèse.
miou
i'm not complaining
in any case we could say that there is not a cat on r / quebec
chat.
don't you like cats?
i am chatting with one of the mods in r / quebec regarding chat posts. i love cats but it hides other posts and makes this sub “cringe”.
"looks like there aren't enough cat photos on r / quebec ..."
no, charles. there are a lot of them.
sometimes i stop coming on the sub for a couple of days just to take a break from the semi-conspi poles, the death rate bickering, semantic ostinages, name it. and these are talking points that have been going on for over a year. every day, almost every hour we see a new post on one or more of these topics.
there we have fun for a few hours and it is very likely that this will never happen again before a creaking end if ever. i think you will survive this assault on your preferences.
especially since there are already 500+ tabarnak cats subreddit
but kossé who's happening? believe it or not, i missed it. r / quebec has changed its vocation ??!
i have downvoted all the last chat posts in new. this is when they are most vulnerable to downvotes.
for some it is a real cat-astrophe.
[deleted]
how do you know if someone is vegan?
you created a monster hahaha
esti, hahahahhaha (i like the initial photo the same hahaha)
it's always like that on reddit. someone posts some sort of tierlist and then there's just tierlists on the sub for a week. / r / minecraft was no worse on trends too. one week was the bridges, the week after the walls, etc.
oh my god no pity. do people who love cats realize that there are also people who don't care about cats on this sub? there are already more than 50 publications, we will not do this once a week.
not enough chat subreddit? it's not very difficult to find
or an animal day.
honestly, i mainly come to this sub to get news that is a little more impartial than in the media and a little smarter than on facebook on the current situation in quebec. i come for my fix of new covid, to feel the pulse of the quebec population in relation to everything that is happening.
worse today the pulse, it was 'miaow'
i said something and i was negotiated lol
they may be suffering from toxoplasmosis!
i agree, i don't understand why the world is falling apart, it's fleeting as a matter of course.
the pass with vincent marissal was also not worse.
because you're afraid he's got a personality? to have a cat is to accept the domination of a harmful furball.
>! i'm kidding eh… although…! <
people who flood the sub with their rather basic cat photos. it's okay, you can go back to bed!
ftfy: because of / u / gablemonde's cat
calm down, it's just pictures of cats. fashion will pass.
i love * my * cats.
it doesn't make the sub cringe, it's a half day trip. stop failing.
reheating a leftover poutine is already average. freezing it, it starts to approach a crime.
buy frozen poutine on the other hand? it is unforgivable.
if i declared that i had done such a thing to the rest of my family, it is clear that they would immediately cut off all contact with me.
even worse: it's olivier primeau's
the matter of olivier primeau is not edible man!
you have no excuse when you can make a poutine with frozen fries and can sauce. you can even freeze the cheese in the worst case and it will never be yucky like all mixed and heated together.
but it seems that the r / quebec consensus and the market do not go hand in hand ...
where is the geneva convention when you need it!
american here ... do people eat frozen poutine? is it possible ?
we already knew that they ate human babies, but this is beyond the limits.
haha this is the content i come here for! tellement drôle!
revolting!
i already bought some, just for the science.
disgusting.
i'm an ontarian but like ... i didn't even know it was possible to buy frozen poutine ... if my family makes poutine we usually use a sauce made with a powdered mixture of store but we still cut potatoes into fresh fries baked in the oven and we use, of course, good cheese in poop, (de la trappe au fromage or st-albert's) not grated cheese, because it tastes nothing like cheese that squeak-e.
time for a fucking crusade !!!
i make a point of honor of all the tryers i am disappointed 100% of the times
ahhhh, we cook meals. it's good because it was free that i ate the poutine, but it was the last time
i bought one at the iga. like poutine with smoke meat.
it was honestly better than some restaurants that think you can make a poutine with greek potatoes.
achkkk is that a thing? ouache
yeah but olivier primeau sells it for $ 5
put grated cheese in place of '' skouik, skouik ''. that too is a crime.
especially if the sauce and cheese have already been added.
aaarrrrrrrkkkkkkk!
to be quite frank, the beachclub poutines can do an acceptable *** job *** at 3 a.m. at the end of the evening when there is just couche-tard open for miles around.
reheated in the oven is better than in the microwave. but it remains blah ....
no jokes, i have already seen a family in chibougamau who bought mcdonald's in massive quantities and frozen for later consumption, fried change into poutine included !!
frozen meal level it is comparable to many things. probably a chinese rebels when he tastes a frozen general tao.
sacrilege, we don't mention his name here
you have to pay $ 5 when you eat it. if you eat one per minute, that's 60 poutines. he just made $ 300.
as tasteless as the man himself probably
yeah except the potatoes have to be freshly cooked. if it's a frozen meal, they're already cooked. the argument ends quite there.
it’s worse to shoot parachutists, even christ business!
it is sold in supermarkets unfortunately.
squiquique
any putin can do an acceptable job at the end of the night at 3 a.m.
mcdonald's is better than that ...
esti of potatoes which are not able to keep their texture !!
i have a friend who worked there for a few weeks and he saw a lady ordering $ 150 of small coffee (with the glasses and lids) to be able to freeze this.
> general tao
is a north american dish.
without the joke, it's absurd how many people buy this product non-ironically at costco. this man has "good" ideas that apparently make him a lot of money (from my own perspective)
i am disgusted, sorry for the people of quebec. there should be a committee to investigate this.
besides, it's not just my culinary standards that go down at the approach of 3 a.m.
very good point lol
apparently there is a debate like our poutine. some people say it's from hunan and others from new york's chinatown. i will have learned from what today.
ok bad example but my point remains. a frozen meal is bad.
no, it should be banned and an article should be included in the geneva convention under: crime against humanity
no matter. i make a better general tao than my chinese colleague who nevertheless prepares the best authentic chinese dishes in mooooode.
so, this is north american!
lol
my 5 year old girlfriend passed away 3 weeks ago (for reasons unrelated to covid). anything in this world that would make me feel better is impossible to do. so i'm just alone now with the government telling me not to let go.
[deleted]
i'm more capable, either. i tried to take my own life last week and after a few days of optimism after leaving the hospital i am already falling into depression. i am a healthcare worker, my job is hell and the curfew prevents me from doing anything after my shift at midnight. i can't even take fucking steps in my neighborhood to clear my head a bit after work. i don't know what to do at all. so much effort to make a difference and i am more unhappy than ever. i want to leave my environment sometimes but i will not arrive financially without my good salary. i can't work days because the teams are full. i don't know if anyone is going to take the time to read my whine but it feels good to get it out of the body for a bit.
it's beautiful people who discovered mental health issues in 2020.
the real shame is that the government is not screwed to put clear measures in place to make psychological help free and accessible in times of crisis. seeing a shrink right now if you can't afford to pay $ 80 / hour is not easy, and it often takes time, but it was that before the pandemic too.
covid has just exacerbated a problem that has been around for too long, regardless of views on containment and government action.
the government should invest more in mental health and stop promoting "self-care" and other style bullshit, it's really backward in philosophy. that being said, “getting back to life” as if nothing had happened is not an option at this time. the long-term effects of this virus, nor the time of immunity after infection, are not yet known, and the new variants are doing nothing to help matters.
the fact that your personal circle has been more affected by confinement than by the virus is normal: only a few tens of thousands of quebecers have been infected, thanks to the instructions. you only have to look at the number of cases and the overflows of hospitals in countries that have not taken it seriously to realize how quickly everything can go wrong. and without wanting to sound insensitive, the mental health and addiction problems your friends experience can hardly be extrapolated to the entire population without more resources. the suicide rate in quebec has remained stable, but clearly the level of anxiety is on the rise, especially among students and less well-off households. it must be said.
as the vaccine rolls out and other companies step up to manufacture more doses, we will be able to contain the bulk of the spread. it is the most important. in the meantime, i pray that the pandemic will ensure that we deny ourselves and that a system like the pharma quebec proposed by qs be established to accelerate the process in the event (and there will be) possible pandemics. futures.
traveling abroad is probably not for tomorrow, but we are slowly but surely coming to the finish line as far as the province is concerned. i can't take it any longer, but we can't let go of everything so close to the goal and risk suffering the consequences for a lot longer than for a few more months.
i talked about it in another post previously, but there are plenty like me who have unbearable physical conditions that worsen during confinement. in my case, i had back surgery and swimming is the only sport i can do, and it's also the only activity that allows me to calm my chronic pain.
the same goes for people who suffer from fibromyalgia or other related conditions. orthopedic conditions just don't go well with staying locked up in our house doing nothing. it makes the pain worse.
life is not just staying alive
i fully understand the attitude of op. the problem is, our health care system was already struggling before the pandemic so now it's just worse than worse. the measures are ruining the mental health of a whole bunch of people, it's true, but we wouldn't be any further ahead if the pandemic were rampant and everyone ended up in the hospital at the same time. health workers are exhausted even with the measurements. it's the kind of situation where they say in english "damned if you do, damned if you don't". there is no good solution. if we remove measures, we add pressure on the health system. if we add more, we save a little but we worsen the cases of mental health. really not an easy situation. we are paying the price for the lack of will and concrete action of all the governments that we have had in the past 30 years. our politicians were more busy making small political moves to score points than dealing with systemic issues. i trust that will change now.
[deleted]
> that makes 7 seven victims, and that's just the ones i know. during that time, i know only one person who had covid (it was rough, but it's over).
this is a survivor bias. you do not see the victims avoided by the measures. it is important to understand that the government is trying to balance the psychological turmoil caused by the lockdown and the potential victims of covid.
in another world, the government would not have taken these measures, the case rate would have exploded, overflowing our hospitals. this would have caused not only more death due to the disease but also those related to overflowing hospitals (non-covid patients not being able to be treated adequately for lack of resources).
is the government taking the best measures to balance these two things? i don't know, but it is important not to fall into fallacious arguments in this debate.
[deleted]
i sympathize with you, i too find it unbearable and the uncertainty of when it will end is the worst. and i, too, see a lot more damage from containment measures than from the virus in my surroundings.
however, if i do the same kind of study as you and draw conclusions from those around me:
* racism no longer exists
* neither does sexism
* there is no more farmer
* 30% of the population is homosexual
* more than 50% of the population has a university degree
* the worst problem in quebec is insomnia
the lack of transparency in government is increasingly infuriating and disheartening, but i will remain a good citizen and assume that the decisions that are made are based on the least amount of total harm.
my girlfriend was coming out of rehab when the pandemic started. 2020 (and 2021 to date) was a continuation of the groundhog from relapse to relapse waiting for closed therapies to open their doors (and missing the boat because we relapse at the wrong time). it is really disheartening. this was the year when his long work to come out of a depression peaked, when his addiction could be tackled. worse, no. health measures and the overflow of health services have all crunched the plan to the ground. we just wait for a certain return to the accessibility of care to be able to start the lost work again.
it feels good to finally see another point of view on reddit. without falling into conspiracy, there is certainly reason to wonder about the management of this crisis.
i have been working in events for 4 years ... today in february i counted having lost 18 colleagues to suicide in the space of 1 years ... many people who have been mentors too ..
the fact that the government does nothing in mental health will catch up with us faster than the pandemic itself.
once all the very old and extremely vulnerable people are going to be vaccinated, (which will still give rise to several cases daily, but much less intensive care hospitalization and death), it will become very hard to justify.
we must not forget the initial objective which is to flatten the curve and not to eradicate the virus, i hope governments will remember this.
i still have juice on my side, the vaccination campaign is very slow, but the daily figures are encouraging and i still have hope.
i really understand what you are going through ... 2020 had started really well for me, i felt my depression getting less intense, i went to the gym, i did yoga, i was going to take walks, i was accepted to the university i was targeting. i was ready to go over my anxiety and meet people at uni ... forget it!
i am a nurse, my job is made so heavy by the pandemic and the lack of personnel that i have left university for the moment. all i do is work at home. not what i had imagined for the year in which i thought to take control of myself.
and that's why as soon as we make progress in reducing new cases, it immediately picks up, because of people who "have had enough" ...
mostly agree, but
> during this time, i know only one person who had covid
this is like saying we should stop wearing jackets because barely anyone is freezing to death. it's not really up for debate that way more people would have gotten covid without these measures.
yes. i trained often too. chu losing everything since last year. i collapse. i was in great shape. my back hurts all the time from sitting all day. i miss spending time with my friends. i miss my coworkers who are super fun. i miss giving my family hugs too and family dinners.
i also like to go for a walk outside after work. it was my daily exercise, not having access to a gym. and i work until 8 p.m. so i had to leave it out. i go there before noon sometimes, but it's hard to find time with all my other responsibilities.
i find it difficult to find happiness and interest in my favorite hobbies.
yes it's really hard this shit pandemic and this curfew is making it even worse.
other ways to look at it:
if you see 7 friends who are struggling, it's because we're in confinement. otherwise maybe you would have more friends who would not have attention in hospitals or died, because they would have been overwhelmed.
you only see the current situation because it is there. in another scenario, maybe you would be emptying your bag on the steps not taken and therefore either the same number of friends or many more friends who would suffer.
it is not known what it would have been like in the other scenario because the government found it more dangerous.
i would be curious (well not really) to see the impact on mental health to see many of his knowledge die because it could not be cured. to force mds to have to choose who lives and who dies. to fall into the multiplication of variants because the more people have it, the more variants develop. to look at ourselves as a society once everything is over and tell ourselves that we have made that choice.
maybe few people have had covid in any circle because of the measures?
i'm not minimizing the current impacts on mental health, but is there any way you can find solutions other than releasing everything and continuing to run in the endless cycle of confinement / deconfinement?
just tell you that legault and his team are royally pissed off. they know very well that a lot of people are suffering because of his measures and not everyone has a single-family house with a courtyard to take the air ... entouka next election, you know for whom not to vote!
i have come to tell myself that i am ready to accept the covid. as it is a coronavirus there will be many mutations which will limit the effectiveness of the means to counter it. we will never completely eliminate the virus. it is spread through the air and by certain animals such as birds. i do not believe that we can manage to control this virus 100% because we also cannot control other viruses of the same type such as influenza. at some point we have to live our lives and the measures prevent us from meeting our basic needs. i'm starting to get fed up with seeing young people sacrifice themselves.
unpopular opinion: 
all the situations you express are situations that happened / existed before the pandemic. is the pandemic giving more stress? yes. wouldn't these people have fallen into their situation even without a pandemic? there is the question
some people look for excuses for their problem. the pandemic has a broad back.
that being said, i hope your friends will find the strength to come out of this.
i will say it and say it again.
legault has been making political moves from the start and it works extremely well. go see are facebook. the boomers are in love with him. he will get re-elected easily. he has two things in mind. deload the hospitals and stay in power.
the rest, he doesn't care. especially if he starts talking about mental health, the boomers are going to get it and say stop whining and be glad you live in a country like canada.
as soon as it loses the boomers' support for curfews and restrictions, they will continue.
i believe the curfew is hard until the minimum march 14th. i think this is where the boomers are going to want to go outside after 8am since there is a change of time.
it's been since october 1 that i just lost hope that the govt makes decisions based on science.
last point, i remind you when november montreal public health sent a document to me legault indicating to open gyms, indicsnt to open museums, etc. explaining that people's mental health is important.
this document has been ignored by the goiv and we see all the heartbreaking stories here.
i am lucky i have no mental problem and i am able to laugh at the decisions of the govt and at least the minimum is that it shows the cases per day so eventually they will have no choice to stop all their settlement absolutely stupid who do nothing .... they are all proud of their pti curfew which brings cases down when all across canada it goes down .... what ever lol just gotta hold on tight. inca have a great summer.
young padawan is not on the dark side.
i was hesitant to comment on the post, but hey i guess i'll go for it because it will do me a little good to unpack my bag.
i do not understand the attitude we have in the face of death in the west, i find that we are really not strong if we are not able to consider that our aging population will inevitably succumb to some disease. , whatever we do - reading some people here it looks like you didn't know your grandparents were going to die one day and the covid made you realize it. newsflash: death awaits us all, and the older you get and the more sick you are, the more likely you are to die. the covid also made you realize that the world in chslds, well that often dies than the average, since they have a life expectancy of less than 2 years. if you are ever curious about how i would manage this crisis myself, because i know that it will be taken out for me, well i will answer you a brick because i have thought about it in esti.
i think of all these seniors confined for the last months of their lives and it breaks my heart, just as much as the confinement of toddlers. have we thought about asking the elders for their opinion? i wanted to talk about this because i am often accused of being someone selfish because i am not in favor of coercive measures imposed on the whole population without any reasonable alternative. the lockdown meant that a friend of mine, who has never attempted suicide before, made not one but two attempts in a year because she lost her job and couldn't pay nothing more. another friend picked up on the street for a similar reason. every week someone tells me about the fact that they are experiencing increasing problems with anxiety, depression, loss of motivation, etc. never before have i had so many desperate people as i do now.
personally i have conquered the majority of my demons - i am sober, i am motivated, i eat well, i love life, i am in love with a guy who makes me trippy ... but i have to admit that despite all that times are hard in the sacrament. the curfew is the measure that made me do a complete about-face. before that i was more willing to collaborate, now i feel like i just do it because i'm afraid of getting fined. esti, in my region we have 10 cases per day and 4 hospitalizations on average. i am flabbergasted. if it overflows our hospitals there is a crunch of problem and it has absolutely nothing to do with the covid. we lack staff, we give them crappy conditions and we are surprised that our hospitals are overflowing, which incidentally happened much more often than we think pre-covid.
worse btw, most of the world don't follow the rules to the letter. i don't even have the right to see my boyfriend do you think i'm going to wait for papa legault to give me a personalized authorization letter so that i can fuck? no but honestly, tinder is going full blast, the world sees two or three friends from time to time, and couples who don't live together see each other, that's it - it's pretty widespread in my entourage and in those of several people i know in across quebec. however, it is not the apocalypse, as far as i know, on the contrary the cases are declining.
i wonder if i would have the guts to go and protest, i've been thinking about it for a while. :)
if we let go, how many would be depressed from the loss of loved ones? i seriously wonder. bad luck would hang elsewhere, people would lose loved ones, etc.
omg, i completely feel your pain. last year i was really respectful of all measurements, i stayed inside and did everything right. but now i am in pain, i have no motivation to do anything, i just feel like there is no end to it. my day is just screen and screen and screen. i have classes all day online so if i need to see the family it's all zoomed in, if i need to relax or stretch her gym on tv and go see a therapist is online and so on. i know how resilient i am, i can only imagine how other people who aren't so resilient would feel. a friend from high school told me that she was thinking of ending her life (yes, she is talking to a therapist) because the fear of this virus is paralyzing her. there must be a better way, there must be alternatives.
\*\*\*sorry for my poor french, i can read it cant right it very well\*\*
personally, i just feel like i'm caught up in a never-ending string of days. no particular problems. i have a job, a family, i am in good health. but i just feel like i wake up in the morning to make the kids breakfast, go to work, make dinner, do a little stationary bike and go to bed (usually too late because i watch videos on youtube ). i can't see the end of that beat and it's starting to make no sense. it's as if i was in groundhog day (the movie) in the end where he tried everything but he doesn't see how to get out of it. still the same day, no way forward, no more sense.
at the same time, everything is rushed at the job, but it doesn't work. i'm still in the mat, but nothing important is coming up. i feel like i have a big loudspeaker constantly playing white noise in my ears. there too, it is a succession of days without the impression of achieving anything.
i work super hard to follow the rules, but i kinda feel like i'm alone working on it (it's just an impression and i know it, there are infinitely more people who follow the rules than not. , but my brain doesn't want to internalize it). the curfew changed that end because now everyone has to stay at home but that doesn't make me happy. worse, obviously (it can be seen in this post), it has serious consequences. i have the impression that the walls are quietly closing in on us, and i can't really see when it's going to reopen. that doesn't make much sense either ...
it's okay (compared to all the really sad stories i read here, which i really like), but it's just boring. i miss my friends, my family, seeing people and i'm afraid that we have forgotten each other during this time. that even when things get better, i'll still be in my little corner living the same day over and over again because we will have lost all of our social relationships. i have the impression that next christmas i will be 2 years older, but with nothing new ...
i'm just a stranger on the internet but i hear you all and all worse i wish we would get out of this asap. don't let go ...
the government doesn't give a damn about all this ... the only priority is to save 80+ year olds from "untimely" death
it scrapes the economy, collective mental and physical health, the future of our young people, but it's secondary compared to covid!
read it with sarcasm or not, whichever makes you less angry
a friend of mine committed suicide the year before covid, also in the spring.
i often wonder if he had changed his mind at the last minute would he have held on since curfew. he was a sociable guy, who liked parties, music shows, girls. he would have found it difficult the year of confinement.
i often think of others who were already at the limit. it is clear that they should not hold out any longer, especially knowing that we are almost there but that, even then, we will have to touch another 6 months surely.
i have other relatives who have a somewhat similar personality - let's say rather dark moods, even almost suicidal. i hope they hold out.
honestly, the measurements wouldn't bother me that much if i knew there were resources that could help me. like, yeah, the current situation sucks, but it would be a lot easier to deal with if we could get some help. i need help, i don't have much money, i have no insurance, and i don't know where to turn. i will continue to follow the measurements for sure, but i really need help.
what bothers me the most about these measures is that they compromise with the economy/education but not mental health. for example, schools and the vast majority of businesses remain open with measures in place, but you can't see a friend without freezing your ass outside. at the very least, they should allow small gatherings in settings like a restaurant or cafe where businesses are forced to implement public health measures. instead, people have risked getting fined going to private gatherings where there are no rules because they know the governments gonna keep them locked in for an unforseen amount of time.
good. there are just the crazy people who do not change their mind, i congratulate you. the government has been in tunnel vision for too long. it is also oddly practical to make ourselves responsible for a disaster limited to the health system for which it is responsible.
it has been known for months that for essentially anyone under the age of 40 or 50, except in extreme cases, the consequences of containment measures are worse than their risks if they catch the virus and the chances of dying from covid. if they catch it are equal to their chances of dying from a car accident within a year. that is why some experts recommended abandoning wall-to-wall measures and focusing protection on the elderly and vulnerable. this was the basis for great barrington's statement, but their opinion was in the minority and they faced a smear and smear campaign to stifle their proposal.
currently, the climate is hostile to reflection. for many, we can only face the crisis by being united behind our authorities. unity is everything, and you have to trust those who lead ... even if they mess up. this means that the more the authorities take questionable and erroneous decisions, the more these people defend the credibility of the authorities and attack those who criticize them, in order to defend unity and solidarity. it creates a perverse cycle where the more the authorities deserve criticism, the less it becomes possible to criticize them.
we will only have a fair picture of the decisions in a few years. but i despair that we will never have justice here. those who were right but will have been ignored will never be rehabilitated but could drag their disagreement with the consensus like a stain on their cv all their life. those who were wrong and who imposed their views will never be worried. they will give us the excuse that "at the time, with the knowledge we had, it was the right decision, even if it turned out to be the wrong one" and when we talk about those who recommended from the start what turned out to be the right decision, one will say "they are just lucky, with the information of the time, their recommendation was wrong, and this even if in the end it was correct".
and at the next crisis, preferably several decades from now, we will make the same mistakes again. there are too many egos and careers at stake for us to learn from what is going on.
i know 6 people who have had covid and i have 8 loved ones at risk. during that time, i just know a person who has had problems related to mental health, worse that she experiences a possibly significant stress it remains much less serious than the fairly probable death of a relative of mine. the choice is easy, and it has been proven time and time again that "just confining the vulnerable" is not the magic solution many imagine. no, you are not the only ones who have thought about it. no, the government is not having fun putting its economy down.
we can stop with these posts, it causes me more stress than the virus. / s
i agree 100%. the only reason why it stays that way is because we don't put any emphasis on mental health and a lot on physical health. it is hopeless.
i am very undecided on my position on this but here is the counter argument:
you only know one person who has had the covid thanks to the measures. if we took the measures away, not only would you have more friends who catch it, but all of your friends who have anything else would be unable to seek treatment due to the overload. the nursing staff would be exhausted and many would fall.
the covid is still there for an ostie de boutte.
it's time to learn to live with covid .. and living with it isn't all about staying locked up, each one of us without activity, without meeting friends.
i'm a shit to say that but it's starting to make a lot of sacrifices for people who are at the end of their life anyway ...
i felt that. i started the detox at home yesterday (supervised by my doctor). i am convinced that i will not have consumption problems if it was not for confinement.
100% agree with you. i know many, many more victims of the measures than victims of the virus. and as you say, not victims of the "jtanned measures" genre. victims of the type solid depression, mental disorders, dropping out, etc.
we will look at the current crisis in a few years and tell ourselves that we were in serious collective hysteria.
no, but it becomes nonsense. i will not be convinced that the curfew is literally despotism and that it is useless. it's revolting.
plus, as cases go down, the government will continue to want to keep us from seeing our loved ones until the fucking month of july. '' just in case '' tse, with the worst variants. oh, we might fall into the orange zone in march, but it's going to be an orange zone like 'ok you can play hockey and see three friends outside in a park at -20'. i don't care. fuck you legault.
personally, if the cases continue to decrease, i give myself until the end of march big max and i start seeing people again. those who are not too eager to listen to legault to the end, anyway. at some point, you have to use your common sense too. you pay attention, but you go.
as if it was human to prevent the world from seeing anybody and just working for 6 months!
i use psilocybe microdoses to keep anxiety, depression, and my alcohol and cannabis use under control.
yeah, i'm starting to find it hard too. honestly, the holidays really hurt me; i thought it would be different, that i could see my family and my friends again (as far as was allowed), but no my joy at the beginning of december was shattered. during my new years eve alone at home, a little tear breakdown and it happens more and more often since the beginning of 2021. there are mornings that i wake up happy and everything is fine so that 5 minutes later i start to cry like a madeleine, but it ended up passing ... in my head i had a barrier "ah 2021 will solve covid", but when 2021 arrived i was faced with reality.
and i wonder what will happen post covid ... i hate masks. my voice does not carry much when i leave and i add a barrier which means that i have to repeat everything or almost shout. but i hate to do both college and i don't talk to anyone outside of our home. but masks are good! it also reduces the flu so post covid we should continue to wear it to reduce the seasonal flu which also kills. and then the curfew also reduces covid so it's okay, are we heading towards an annual lockdown from december to april?!?! ... do we want that? note that i am not comparing the flu to covid, i am talking about measures to combat it.
worse, i like working quiet at home, at least i'm lucky to have a job that the pandemic hasn't affected so much, but even though it's very quiet and calm, i miss the pissed off kid who talks all the time at the office, basically y'é funny and nice even if he talks all the time.
and there is so much suffering with covid around ... there are no solutions other than containment, none, are you sure? where is the end of it? we run a race, but the finish line is always pushed back. i often compare confinement to pandora's box; ok we opened it, but now what do we do?
i'm exhausted.
i just want to tell you that i love you reddit folks. i understand your suffering. i know it's a meager comfort, but this idea supports me in difficult days: we have at least that in common, we are all in the same boat. i'm thinking of you reddit folks. we will win with wear, we are petty as well. ❤️🦋
it's been a while since the world has been talking about collateral victims and the fact that confinements kill / endanger more people than if we were not confined. unfortunately the government does not agree with this and calls people conspirators when they start asking questions about the validity of its strategy.
the thing is, you compare the number of collateral victims to the number of virus victims now, with the measures in place. the numbers would most likely not be the same at all if the said measures were relaxed.
we must also keep in mind that the effects of the virus are exponential and do not only have effects on the health of the most vulnerable. for example, there would be economic consequences if the health system collapsed, and if a majority of people lost loved ones. people's mental health was possibly affected just as much, if not more.
afterwards, i am not saying that we must support the government in all the measures chosen to manage the crisis either. i am the first to criticize the incompetence of the caq in the face of the crisis.
i am at the end of the line too, i have always had anxiety and depression problems but the last year is making me at the end of my rope. my relationship with my son's mother is over at the start of the covid then j 'lost my job, i started drinking again until i went to the emergency room, i had a rehab, i lost everything, house and money, i am now forced to stay with my father because of my finance and i do not see the end because my anxiety is in the carpet and moral side i am at the lowest so no return to work in sight.
i just knew what to do other than cry in my bed.
coudonc, it's made a bad repost screenshot benchmark even facebook here. the popularity of a sub is inversely proportional to its quality.
it's bad as same
does anyone stay there who thinks the pendemia is not serious?
what is the link with quebec?
yeah, but immortality and invulnerability are not the same.
the old one protects the covid because it kills a bundle of burdens
she has a bag of holding too. very powerful.
.... and one ~~ring~~ mask to rule them all
aha elizabeth 2 old is funny
the picture is about an immortal, but i just see an undead ...
but thank you, covid, for reinstating the theocracy!
we really needed this ... / s
why this female dog ain't dead yet
we are approaching 100k, said, it's the end! the arrival of matantes will cause our loss.
reddit's algorithm unfortunately ensures that fast-reacting content is favored tremendously. indeed, as a sub grows, eventually the grannies (usually the most empty grannies) gain the upper hand.
last year i complained about the same mardies when everyone was making winnie the pooh. i got downvoted to death. here is where we are.
the very worst are indeed found here. the saddest thing is that they take comfort in their pre-conceived ideas and throw up their morality to us at two hundred.
full
half the americans.
too many people. you probably have people in your family who don't believe it!
you have no idea.
i do not believe that there are still people who think that the pandemic is false, on the other hand more and more people are starting to be aware of the true death rate of the virus which varies between 0.2% and 0.7%
there are 7 billion of us on the planet.
is there anyone left there who thinks [x]?
the answer is always yes.
hey the cave the pandemic is fake as fuck wake up!
something may be partially true
she's our queen.
you don't have to have a connection with quebec to be posted on the sub.
she's not a female dog, but a representative of an old useless system which is costly to all the countries of the "commonwealth"
> meit
seems it wasn't that long ago that we were celebrating 50k subscribers. time passes so fast
this is something that i miss from the traditional forums of the time where the discussions were less fleeting and allowed for a bit slower discussion. on reddit it's almost impossible to have a thread that lasts more than a few days.
i think we are moving forward a bit then.
not just in the states, we have plenty of humbugs here too ... is embarrassing ...
i really don't. everyone in my family really takes it seriously.
which is still big for a virus that spreads so easily.
in the states it is 2% and canada 3% ... apart from the long-term effects.
muh queen
no thanks
no thanks, i don't give a damn
you’re not wrong... but read the room/subreddit
you don't have to have the quality of a bad facebook post either.
that's it, love you better? you hate that i barouette my crooked joual lol
and on the forums you had no karma whores either who just posted shit to increase their virtual points.
#the government wants us to control.
without laughing, sometimes it's a pity ...
we can find them on the youtube video of cbc which talks about the virus
not sure, according to the who the cdc is the pasteur institute not indicate it is figures, send me your sources please
québec going monarchist is the biggest twist of 2020.
what do you want me to tell you? it's not against the sub rules, i imagine you can always downvote and bring your grievances to the mods.
yeah, that was * yink * that was missing.
at the same time it means that the world up votes the position, so it reaches an audience.
ps: i have never voted a granny, on the contrary, but i must be in the minority.
[this is the premier of alberta explaining that some very influential people in this world are trying to use the crisis to impose more control on the population] ( v = dllyfbvbstu)
"my broker friend told me everything is correct"
* criss that we have a tite fret *
"ah well, you have to re-invent yourself!"
"tse, intelligence is the ability to adapt."
"maybe you just don't understand."
"it's a shame, there aren't enough resources for everyone."
excuse me ... my cynicism is overflowing.
how beautiful is the apocalypse
it will be fine !!!!
[it's a beautiful world.] (
fortunately you are not afghan
at least your coffee is hot
when will the revenge of the beta millennial living in montreal in an apartment full of bedbugs?
without a woman, without a child, without a home.
smoke pot, don't play sports.
mard job in the gig economy.
thank you boomers!
disclaimer: i am a boomer.
i understand
s'correct
[it should be this, though.] (
live the pcu
"poor"
pain
"it's going to be fine"
[solution](
it must not be funny living in such anxiety!
most of the "poor" world that i know has increased their standard of living since the pandemic! it works below the table and picks up the pcu / pcre ... they do more than me clear per month while i am a network administrator for a multinational ...
i think i'm gonna have to renegotiate my salary lol
tsé after seeing a lot of news on afghanistan, and seeing this, you know your really spoiled pi first world when you complain about these "problems".
i really roll my eyes seeing this post like this 🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🥱
it is too late to take care of others who do not understand the situation and it is high time to prepare for your own future. move away from big cities, get weapons, make a plan to buy and rotate non-perishable food and building materials, plan ways to get food and water for the long term. and obviously not to have children.
b
you have control on 3 points on this same. work on it.
[deleted]
“the market can just go up”
as long as you don't put on a cotton hoodie.
just learn to code
does it happen for real, people who re-invent themselves?
[deleted]
🌈
it went well !!!
[ (nsfw)
thanks for the introduction
yes it's always easier to just "1-up" anything to make the contrast.
"ah! are you sad to be an itinerant without arms or legs? well there, you are lucky not to be in rome in 233 ac!"
my tea * i don't drink coffee: p
boomjour
i feel personally attacked.
i felt that.
well no ... the trick is to ignore reality.
i don't know why you are being negotiated, i see exactly the same thing as you.
it's horrible what's going on there, but downplaying other people's problems like anxiety and mental illness because things are going badly in afghanistan, not strong.
at this point i can just die at the worst.
it's not that bad, dying, i won't even realize it when i'm dead.
> move far from big cities
near lac-frontière, i suppose?
until the decline.
if you're not for having kids, why piss off everything else in the first place? do you want to become a survivalist just to stay alive or so that there is something left of you, your homeland, your nation, your values, your culture, your history, the day when the bad luck is going to be solid? i'm pretty sure making little humans to keep the torch lit a little longer is pretty much the best you can do for your survival.
not here bro ...
r/thanksimcured
have you tried not being poor? /s
i don't miss downvotes. life is a constant struggle, sometimes it happens and it will continue to have, and if you are not able to stand up and fight for your personal problems that you are there person that it affects the most, therefore the best placed to solve them, how do you want to solve the other more serious problems?
pour citer rocky: “let me tell you something you already know. the world ain’t all sunshine and rainbows. it’s a very mean and nasty place and i don’t care how tough you are it will beat you to your knees and keep you there permanently if you let it. you, me, or nobody is gonna hit as hard as life. but it ain’t about how hard ya hit. it’s about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward. how much you can take and keep moving forward. that’s how winning is done!”
[deleted]
it even has the bttf (back to the future) plate
phillip danault brings home the '93 cup.
yé come back in time to see the sketch of chick'n swell on victo live
doc wanted a poutine.
already that a delorean in 2021 it is extremely expensive, imagine you one which was in addition modified in replica that film holy shit i am curious to know the value
sick, i didn't know who had one in quebec! very jealous
this is an extreme way to ensure that the poutine originates from victo.
nobody said that 2021 was a late year?
seriously, i was in the car with my wife and i was so impressed to see it here!
it's my evening
she has been traveling our roads for several years. glad to see she's still rolling!
mmmm .... back ...
mmmm ... round trip beef ...
do you go up your engine to do 88 mph?
i had rented one for my graduation party, it was really cool!
play well since outatime would exceed the limit of 7.
we go to victo!
i hope he doesn't go to ashton's, may be disappointed.
the best space-time for the most delicious!
not that expensive for a used original, around us $ 35,000-45,000.
i think there is more than me.
the chief network technician at my cegep had a "normal" one until a few years ago.
when we learned it, everything became clear to our computer class why each time the web server dedicated to the course project was resuscitated it had a time difference of -33 days: it is clearly because 'in fact he was going to look for a functional instance in the past: p
maybe a historian coming back from the future to see if it was that much worse than that? :)
that's why it's appearing now, it's gonna be fun again very soon
outatim
for when your time machine accidentally takes you 30 years in the past and on top of that, you've run out of timbits.
prepare the mustard sandwiches!
i think it's part of the joke in bttf: it's a tank of marde!
wow she takes you back in time that tim was good!
was that where the beginning was shot as a super-cameraman-o-vision?
unless you ride it! (the problem is the motor, the frame is actually a good base)
if i remember correctly, the movie version they changed the prv engine to a porsche engine
i am nostalgic.
but you can't pay your card criss!
exact
if that can reassure you earlier, there's a guy who got the wrong number, we chatted for 15 minutes. fact that yeah it's shit.
i don't know if it's me who is confused, but people living alone aren't supposed to have the right to see other people one on one?
in any case, nothing prevents you from taking walks with other people.
i know it's not ideal, but it's always better than nothing.
i think the worst thing for me is when legault says nonsense like "i know it's difficult, but we're all in the same situation ..."
no legault, me in my mini 3 1/2 in the city and you with your family in your big house in the suburbs with a big yard, it is not the same criss of business. he's so out of touch, it's infuriating
[deleted]
look, i don't know what to tell you ... start going to those famous "places of worship"?
at 100 people, you'll feel like you're "in a crowd" at least.
(this is my modest attempt to give you a small smile ... for a few seconds ..)
i just tried to buy a good 2l of double chocolate coaticook to eat it while crying
i didn't look at the time, i arrived at 7:20 at the iga and we already let no one enter
tabarnak osti i just want to eat my pain
the most frustrating thing is when the pm declared that the vaccines would be distributed proportionally in all regions of quebec. montreal has been confined since october, very often in small apartments with few activities to pass the time, the region is also the most affected by variants. it seems to me that all of quebec would benefit from giving a little priority to vaccination in the metropolitan region.
looks like journalists are pretty buddy buddy with politicians, right? it seems to me that we don't often hear difficult questions for them. i would have liked to see more emphasis on the fact that it is just in quebec that there is a curfew in all of north america and that the cases are dropping everywhere. it is not enough to say that since cases started to decline when the curfew was put in place, it is then the curfew which is responsible for the decline in cases. but that's just my opinion ..
i just wanna tell you ... you're not the problem. many people share your frustration. perhaps if we stop being silent and speak with a voice to denounce the government's mismanagement, they will start to move. as long as the government feels the people support it, they will not change their approach.
i sympathize 100%. me too, i'm starting to be at my wit's end and the announcement of earlier is like a kick in the stomach when you're already on the ground. more capable. if an anti curfew demo is planned, i'll go. i can't take any more.
“in a context of variants”
“we have just a few tough weeks ahead of us.”
“one more last big effort, it's the end of the end of the marathon.”
edit: “we think there may be an increase in cases in those areas.”
lol. yeah, kitten. i'd like to know who their pr team is, never do business with them.
cool, cool, cool.
i'm saying that, i'm saying nothing, if we are so terrified of variants in greater montreal, why was the greater number of vaccines more for the greater mtl region was it just good for a week?
students in schools are struggling, but we keep the spring break to please the unions. and nobody talks about it.
then, we go from yellow to orange to red by snapping your fingers, but go back down, oh no.
worse, don't leave me on curfew. it is violating my fundamental rights to forbid myself to move around as i see fit in the public space when i want to. i'm not telling you to go see other people or whatever, just move around without having to justify myself.
they managed to scare you with the virus. and they used your fear to erode your rights. and it worked.
the proof? all over north america cases are going down, and no one else has a curfew. we are so much better in quebec. calisse of province of marde.
the fucken mach break infuriates me. they are using as an excuse to keep the restrictions. they should have canceled it if they consider it to be such a big problem
ma tell you this week i just understood why we have such a hard time getting through. the osti of old / old calisse. my mother m achales for i come to dinner the fds, i go there worse 3 days later said to me: ah well when you came i had symptoms and i have to take the test but i don't think i caught it and then after my test i'm gonna go to costco.
sacrament have been pissing off the whole province for 1 years to protect them, these old people there are no fucking respect for others not all that matters is what they want, no big deal if i have symptoms i have to see my kids, okay, i have symptoms, i have to go to costco.
i am in the sacrament, last year destroyed me financially and my health took a hit worse the old woman who knows i can not afford to lose 2 weeks of work no it is not important the health or the life of others should not stop the boomers from shopping.
they lost control, it was only a matter of time.
the only reason we're not outside demonstrating is that it's -25c every third day.
spring is not going to be easy. spring 2021?
i am for sanitary measures, but at one point, no explanations ... no adhesion.
if you live alone, go see who you want, if the police arrive you say that you are grafting yourself into this family bubble.
honestly you can go and receive whoever you want. very few people will report if you do it subtly
same bro.  
in addition, even in the orange zone not screwed to see the world that you love criss. die of loneliness but at least hey, you can go to the movies!
legault is sick.
wow, air quebec is making good progress. i had to quit for my sanity but when i come back a few months later there are full sons full of people saying the things i was being called a conspiratorial tata ham and 50 negavotes. sweet breeze of freedom!
same situation. past close to turning completely barjo in january. do not let go
i'm with you buddy
🌈 we are all going to die🌈
it has been illegal to visit my parents for 9 of the last 12 months. the hospitals were never overwhelmed after april 2020. these restrictions are divisive, dehumanizing, totalitarian.
i give you a hug ... if you want to talk chula.
we are 103k on the sub, would it not be possible to start a petition, contact a deputy who is more "on our side" and arrange all that?
it's no small affair and we are certainly not the only ones in quebec who think that it is going a little too far (while staying out of the conspiracies).
everyone is like that. bottom line, no longer able to endure legault, arruda and the others.
life is a bitch.
amen, the only thing keeping me going is drugs and alcohol
i live you alone, i work from home you alone, i eat you alone and i sleep you alone.
[deleted]
i am in the same situation. even me who is lonely begins to find it long in dirty. i can't wait for spring to come so i can at least go hiking on the weekends.
i couldn't either man ... i felt aggressive all day after the press briefing. i feel super sultry worse chu 2 fingers of snapper. i have a lot of trouble having my rights violated even by an innocent esti who is not even able to line 3 words in english. at each press briefing, i feel more and more that i am being taken for a cellar and i don't like it.
what are you going to do ?
have you thought about writing to your deputy?
if you need help 1 800 call
i am in the same situation. if we trust his challenges 28 days his progressive deconfinement of sports will extend over 1 year.
similarly. i'm really sick of their bullshit. it is going in the right direction. now is the time to let go of absurd measures like the curfew.
i feel you man, i feel you in criss. i have had no semblance of sanity but i remain functional for the moment thanks to my routine and my outside agents (notes, blonde, new job etc) but otherwise i would collapse. don't let go, we all support each other.
never had outbreaks leaving gyms or performance halls, but they were not opened, not even at 50% capacity. no additional efforts for vaccination in the red zones, where there are the majority cases. efforts can help and i want to do my part to stop the pandemic. but to say to the economic heart of the province: "just go to work but i'm going to spoil my suburbanites" insults me.
at this point you can just ignore the rules and sleep with whoever you want who gives a fuck
i am a gamer and a person who likes his time, this pandemic does not affect me haha but i can see how it can appeal to you it is the nerves of people social. courage the gang
trudeau ..... legault ... head to head asti ... tabarnak ...
do not drop the potato. we are soon at the end.
anyone having a tldr from today's press conference? chui ootl
i understand you, i do my social work at work, i even do overtime days to be alone at home for less time, the joy of my week is when i play my game of d & d on skype with my friends.
[deleted]
give us your phone number, we'll call you from time to time to chat!
admit eh. i rush into criss these days me too. i feel like in prison, isolated and alone. i am disgusted.
can you point me to the study that says delaying the second dose of the vaccine is a good idea?
because here we go from the period of 21 days to 42 days max from the manufacturer, to go to 84 days and now it's 3-4 months.
everyone we talk about abroad (us, france, england, sweden, germany, italy) tell us that they don't, the deadlines are very strict on the 2nd dose.
are we shooting each other in the foot there? other than '' meuuuh there it doesn't fall completely ineffective after 42 days in the cellar '', i know, i'm not aunt here. but i would love to boutsiarge to have my second dose as it has been proven black-on-white that between 21 and 42 days is 95% effective.
we criss our camps in texas!
omg i'm so boredddddddddddddddddddd!!!!
i'm even tired of walking, my legs are atrophied! i want to bikeeeeeeeeeee mom give me a spring!
my cat finds me annoying!
(ok, thanks for giving me this platform to express myself! we're gonna survive everyone)
health.
if you need to chat, send me a message. i can't stop everything that's going on outside, but we can at least have a chat.
i found myself a group to play dungeons and dragons online. it makes me talk to people a bit. you should find yourself an activity like this.
i am okay. orwell called, he wants politicians to stop plagiarizing on him.
suddenly! = faq l'à lâ!
i have never lived in saguenay, but its mayor tremblay influenced me all the same thanks to infoman.
(fr) "in case ..." = (qc) "suddenly"
as in the sentence "put on my panties, suddenly the mother-in-law would arrive."
all of a sudden = dzune shotte
at some point = a momnate
it is beautiful to see two nations which unite in the "faq of the blow". finally, we are not that different!
there is also the exotic fecque.
rôôô there, it's a hassle your thing
yeh faq that's it.
completely wrong. there are regions in quebec where we say "fèq" instead.
suddenly: "pis là!"
you're on fire this week 😂
thank you, i didn't have the faith to correct yesterday's table!
at least we are more varied
grammar / 20
there's no canada like french canada! the quebecois is number one.
yes
thanks for correcting this meme that was kidding me!
all of a sudden = faq dret there
why are there suddenly plenty of posts that compare the french of france with the quebecois? something happened?
no worse, you picked up a post from yesterday.
original the tse guy.
pi?
it's not "faque there" it's "faque leuh"
he was something when he spoke in french .... but in english it was even better.
do a little google search: saguenay is a white city
is it worth it!
i come from saguenay. it shouldn't all be bad: fek there
"au cezou"
a manné loh it's going to be proud!
a mandné
a good manna
eille là là, that's enough your shit!
suck
it's the cross and the banner
it's the *best* canada in the land
i'd buy you a biscuit if i could.
there's a guy who made it his mission to make the french angry
a really wrong post that deserved correction.
it's been years ago but my boyfriend and me we still say “lightning yen even in africa” far too often because of [this great video.] (
thank you, i really found it funny!
saguenay is a white cities *. the plural is important 😂
yes yes my friend. doug ford can kiss my butt
merci mon ami, i appreciate the thought :)
he was a hell of a character!
not a bad guy but quite a caricature!
good evening to you and your boyfriend friend!
chocolate éclairs!
you're welcome friend!
dude, i'm from saguenay and everyone here finds it hilarious ... it sounds bad for a while 🤣
i have often wondered why loto-québec had not yet made a "loto-électrique" ticket with a chance to win a tesla * full equip * as a jackpot and other less expensive electric cars in secondary prizes.
the word game is written by itself!
instead they come up with it.
soon at your favorite convenience store: loto-covid !!! the first jackpot multiplied by the number of people in intensive care ...
i take my temperature in degrees kelvin, do you multiply even more?
i wrote to loto quebec to complain.
here is the answer:
hello mr. x,
thank you for taking the time to contact us. we will route your comment to the appropriate people.
for any questions or for more details, do not hesitate to contact us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. call toll free at 1 866 611 ‑ loto (5686) or write to jeuxenligne @ lotoquebec .com.
regards,
kathryn
customer relationship center attendant
online games - lotoquebec.com
shouldn't make -25 if you win will come and grab you ..
[lottery in question] (
it's just good taste ...
absolutely rude and shameful.
ah ben tabarnouche
why am i here i don’t even speak fluent french and im from the other side of the country
sheeeeeeeeeeeesh
thank you, it makes you laugh to cry (and it makes you cry to laugh) ... i was not aware here so far from you
we agree that the target audience is not the little reddit nerds, it is the douchebags that roll in jacked pickup and their plastic breasted pitoune.
... are you so woke that the lotteries cannot make a lottery flavored with summer temperatures without thinking that it must start a social movement?
really?
wow the amount of people offended by that !!! worse the other who writes to complain ... beau sub here lol
what a game of m ............. tabarnak!
probably because not everyone wants a tesla, but it's not everyone who wants cash.
* lotesla *
it is not invented for real. they know their target audience i guess?
ashton missed a good opportunity to convert january's rebates into a hint of infection. next time!
take them in [degrees rankine] ( it's kelvin, but in farenheit ...
kelvins are units, not degrees.
good idea.
but let's say that we are talking about the principle that i am quite a coward, that we are not bad at being quite a coward here, would you or another user be ready to post a nice little message that we could take back and sign? our turn ?
faque if you try to spam them, go!
so you can practice :)
so why?
don't you find it a bit stupid as a lottery? as long as there is a lottery that gives you $ 10,000 depending on how many feet you measure?
i don't pretend to speak for others, but i believe people are more disgusted than offended. excess heat as we live more and more, [it literally kills people] ( do you find it correct to trivialize these deaths and, moreover, in the name of a lottery? come on, you're capable of a better critical mind than that ..
how do you feel? go play somewhere else if you don't agree
"belle societer"
the world likes to laugh lol
i'm probably not fast, but i still can't find it
you sell it
> probably because not everyone wants a tesla
bin buys you another grateux. it's not like we don't have a choice.
the merriam-webster shits your high school science teacher with his quotes: [
>! but the oqlf, the only real authority for the french language in quebec, agrees with you  <
it's a lot more legit when everyone writes their own message, isn't it? otherwise their email will just treat the text as spam.
true i need it especially in school
there is another
it's crazy!!! when it comes to choosing your fights!
loto-électrique .......... the electric car! xd
it would still make them sell fewer tickets, there's nothing that interests them but to sell as many tickets as possible.
what? it says "a unites" in the definition and all the quotes too. the only place where it says degree is in the example sentence written by an employee of the site and not a scientist like in the quotes.
skip a 15 min 15 sec.
in fact, of course, i would have changed the subject to a minimum, but i was getting back to doing a kind of quick petition by email.
i'm going to write something but i don't think there will be many of us. however, i am optimistic that the story will end up in the media and that loto-québec will have no choice but to go back ... in any case, i dare to believe that i still live in this world!
... they said, moaning.
lol its sounds like the fight that you did not choose but that you stress not to choose. isn't it the sense to choose your fight? don't be where you don't want to be.
so much masochism.
asti! i’m really slow in the evening hahaha
how to say ... there was a lottery for 1 year of poutine ... if you think that there are fewer people who want to win a $ 150-200k float than a year of poutine you are in the field .
if i'm by [the kind of stuff they post on twitter] ( the person who wrote this knew exactly what she was doing, and she was doing it. to make fun of your prescriptivist teacher 😆
we must listen to the specialists! 🤪
physicists are physics specialists. the specialists of the english language are the makers-of-english-dictionaries. the authority of the english dictionary-makers wins. to each his own discipline. do your research! 🙈
there must be a sore neck in the first photo
"i don't like oil sands. it's coarse and rought and irritating... and it gets everywhere."
what exactly happened with his last election promise to plant millions (billions?) of trees?
was there at least one that got planted because of this?
ndp is cutting oil and gas subsidies!
trudeau's last panel: ^ we ^ will ^ ban ^ plastic ^ poles
go and demonstrate, do your best jsp what to do ...
b
the template is so much better than the original
ahahahahah
now do a housing one!
*claps hysterically*
don't like sand .... but sable de tar
"we're going to destroy the environment, so there's no need to talk about it afterwards!" / s
you can’t stop an industry like this , right on. you need some times to transition.
"as long as it works ..." * papa trudeau's tongue-in-cheek *
you will save the earth by reducing canada's overall emissions rate which is 1.5% ... laughter bars as they say in france.
eng translations please! i wanna kno the meme too!
the only reason i vote for them is so that the conservacons don't mess.
cependant, go ** npd **!
you have to have a column for that.
heuheuheuheuh
tl; dr pandemic so other fish to fry
i received bags of trees to distribute free of charge to citizens at my job. like 500. we are full of environmental organizations to have received some. the kind of 15cm tall trees that have a 5% chance of going through their first winter, unless they step into the first lawn mower they come across, not easy to tell them apart from a blade of grass.
he is above all multiculturalist and not too multitasking.
ben the block too. plus, they want to replace the current equalization system for a green equalization!
the dirtiest provinces would pay the greener provinces.
it will encourage competition between provinces as to who will reduce their emissions the most.
just understand that the author of the grandma is trying to make you believe that the situation would not be even worse with the conservatives, that should be enough.
because for those who do not practice selective amnesia, trudeau still introduced the carbon tax and rejected the teak mine and grassy mountain projects.
which makes us among the worst polluters per capita.
if all the worst polluters do their part, yes, we can improve the situation.
welcome to quebec.
memes are the best tool for learning french. believe me.
[deleted]
take my upvote and scram! xd
like the reform of the voting system, he was * well * busy at the time as well.
the problem with these "mini", it takes a lot of patience and love. in his first year in a quebec vacation club, about 35 years old, my brother received a "branch" of fir trees in a bag, this tree is now easily over 30 feet high. my parents are super proud of this tree that they planted in their first summer in quebec.
5 years later i received more or less the same in school, 30 years later the tree is no taller than my sister-in-law.
4 summers passed, there was a tree distribution in my town, in september, trees can be 3/4 feet high, 1 per citizen, so i took friends addresses for 3 trees, but each one trees need different love to survive the hot weather.
in conclusion, it's not for everyone.
and the block supports the 3rd link of quebec. it won't be easy.
the bloc is in the field, equalization is not to see who is the greenest ... it is to offer an equivalent level of services to every canadian.
otherwise, with the free movement in canada, everyone would move to the rich provinces because you were able to serve in your province.
should everyone stop until the govt works for us. 0 violence 0 stress just done nothing everyone :)
strategic voting is a bad idea anyway.
yes, but even if the conservatives have no chance of winning in your account, one more liberal mp still gives them less chance of winning (to the conservatives). in the final, the winner is the one who has the most elected deputies. i am not defending strategic voting, but your assertion is false.
ah, i agree, worry.
i don't see the connection but yes it was the lpc that pretended to educate the public using a vague poll and then decided "lol, nobody wants that". it was pitiful.
[deleted]
[deleted]
i know, i was talking about what the block offers ...
* i imagine * the idea is that if you pollute it affects the ghgs of the whole country so it should at least enrich the whole country.
it will take details.
base
in an ideal world, yes, but with the electoral system we have, it is a necessity.
why do you think so many people want voting reform?
choosing the lesser evil in order not to destroy your country seems to me to be considered enough of a reflection. voting blindly for a party that can do nothing and see the worst of the worst win power is a lot less enticing.
we are forced to vote strategically because of the voting system. a simple two-round vote would already help enormously in this direction. people would vote green, ndp, or bq if it suits them, pi once the final race is liberal vs conservative, the conservatives get crushed. as in france when the fn won the first round.
note that even if this would help, the two-round vote is still zero compared to really more interesting systems. but that would be a simpler solution to implement.
it would be more fun and easy to say that the bloc is clearly disinterested and ambivalent, but that's not what yfb said today ¯ \\\ _ (ツ) \ _ / ¯
also green equalization would be a brake on making the third link when we see the money that is lost in addition to construction, maintenance and worst of all.
it's especially depressing when you read the radio-can article on the electoral compass which says that for 73% of bloc voters, the most important issue is the environment. clearly they didn't get the memo!
i know. i wanted to point out that the bloc's proposal seems derailed and would cause more problems than solutions.
agreed. in my opinion, it takes a distinct background altogether.
but we already have that with the carbon tax. at this point it is a question of knowing if the formula is right and if there is a need to increase the scope of the tax.
if nobody, but literally nobody, voted strategically, would we really have such controversial results in every election?
and i am the first to want a reform of the voting system. it was a promise that the trudeau gils liberals were quick to break after the last election. if someone votes red this year and hopes for a reform of the voting system, i think it's a fad. just as naive to believe in trudeau for those who have already believed in him.
it's hard enough to get people to the polls for a single vote, expecting them to go twice is unrealistic in my opinion. there are, however, many other voting systems that provide better representation while requiring voters to go to the polls only once.
did you put on your ti-mask? did you put on your ti-helmet?
no need for a notice, on other surfaces i'm the king of the breakage😎
hypocrite, he will clog the health system after hitting his head
do not apply ste curve there!
we calm down, it's not mont st-anne.
hat's off.
no violence it's the holidays
i thought that shit was photoshopped lmao
crime, do you live in parc extension?
okay, i'm done making the popcorn. what's going on with our minister?
i can't do that i live in a 3.5 in which you confine me my tbk!
fake lvl : intagram
the world has nothing to do
do you have your ti knife?
[deleted]
it's brice's heist! it's brice's heist! it is the break, break, break, break, break brice!
ti-casse, l'roi d'la casse!
we calm down, it's not a real newspaper, the revoir.
i collapse
more like  mont extension.
first minister, please! :)
because of the minister
to remove the ti pieces
always chillin’ with my kirpan
well to be fair with you that's not some grammatically correct french. it's from a humour sketch from françois pérusse called "le petit chirurgien".
"ti" is a short form of "petit", much like "lil" and little
it's from a comedy sketch where a person sings an ironic children's song, so it is spoken in a childish way... in québécois
give me some cash!
i caqpote
sa-lut my amiiii! is your patient asleep?
here we say ndp membership card
* big / s
[deleted]
the craqpote
good-es
it's a combination of two things :
- a weird interrogative form that only exists in spoken quebec french as far as i am aware
- do i have xxxx? => do you have xxxx?
- do you have xxxx? => do you have xxxx?
- does he have xxxx? => do you have xxxx?
- contraction of "tu as" into "t'as"
so, the textbook version of this would be "did you put on your little mask? did you put on your little helmet?"
r / atbge?
i can't believe anyone would be flattered and not a little freaked out by some random dude showing you a tattoo on your face. it's creepy as fuck.
you can see in legault's gaze that he says to himself:
"ta, bar, no"
bad champion that.
i mean, including this idea on a smaller scale in a bigger tattoo could be funny but a full sleeve ???
calis que c'est trash.
i giggled in the metro
do you have a video of his reaction?
damn legault is beefy af
he must be in a relationship with the one who is tattooed the logo of the salvail broadcast.
i do not understand french like more to look at the posts here
(english speaker without google translate, pardon mistakes lol)
eyyyyuuuwwwww
is good in tabarnak
seal wadding
oh boy ... imagine being on a date with this guy ... worse things are going well worse he takes off his waistcoat ... screaming that i pick up my stuff and run off.
next week he will come back with a legault mannequin in lego ...
nasty winner, bravo
he's surely on the sub.
we give ourselves lego to find it cringe!
lol poor him
wow
i don't know if it's just the angle, but legault is built like gru lmao
aye criss from beau tat big
legault's account tweeted this photo with virtually the same title
néo, fallow the white rabbit.
we have the things we deserve.
i have no words.
a mentally ill person, if legault loses his elections in 2022, he will regret his tattoo
cringe >9000
a true quebecer
hahaha! i was just going to say. it's 100% made for this sub.
i dunno, i would have said / r / cringepics.
i hope he has already made an appointment for his cover.
he asked her what it would look like later.
with a spelling error in your name on top of that. like, lego.
no it's a full steeve
well how do you think the caq won the election? yon rammase all the somewhat trashy vote that normally the pq would pick up and pass laws for the world who are afraid of seeing a civil servant with a veil.
on his tiktok 
wears pare-bales?
he will soon join the template of doug or rob ford.
it's a big pile of mard in a suit
serious?
at least you try.
ok
ok
still pretending that the majority of the sub is conspiratorial?
fortunately for him, it is not likely to happen anytime soon, legault is on track to stay in power for another 8 years.
the kind who comes from longueuil and hugs the labatt 50 on a tuesday evening
phew, if that's a true quebecer, i declare myself apatriiiidddeeee
not so much, have you seen legault's face on the tattoo? we are far from photorealism.
it is the image of a harlequin romance between two elderly men who discover love for the first time.
the passport of your heart
christian and horatio
©caqmusique/msss 1985
* tartletssssssss *
if i wasn't cowardly i would have photoshopped a moon to give [that] ( but with three arruda and then i would have named l 'image "a-woo-da" or something.
planets of the apes vibes
it makes us think arruda who makes minou-kitty-kitty-kitty comes to look for the good food miss miou
looks like doc arruda is sitting in front of a giant painting of minister dubé
it is after episode 4 or dubé is struck down by darth covid and come back in the spirit of strength to tell his padawan arruda how he should act. episode 5, the rise of the passport
seen in [this article] (
arruda kisses us
hahahahahaha yes that's funny screeching xd
please: we need someone to add it to this [photo] (
majority block and horacio: covid-zero.
looks like a wolf sweater
ufc 42069 @ colisée de laval - horacio "dr. pie" aruda vs chris "dooby" dubé
[♪ we want kisses ♪] (
it seems that christian dubé's "ghost force" is making mean eyes at arruda who howls at the moon like a wolf.
[docteur stephenson](
larger 
# aoûûûûuuuuut
^^^^ ends. soon september ...
let's go we make memes with that
it looks like a gta loading screen
he will give it a bezou tit
personally, it's dubé that i find well captured, it's a bit the same look of the little girl in the tank that has gone viral.
it's not just you, i confirm lol
i want a t-shirt with this image!
worthy of a harlequin novel cover (aka les cous cassés);)
it's star wars poster
stand master: horacio arruda
stand name: 『the passport』
i want an aruda moon 3 t-shirt
directed by hideo kojima
ontario is better. peace.
book's extract;
"oh jeannine, i would like so much to find a man who looks at me as christian looks at horacio at the moment. let him come and flatten my curve!"
this moment when i realize that the coronapocalypse reduced me to appreciating extracts of fictional-oblique between a high official and a minister.
tadam!
[
ah, and i would like to point out that the moon, the aurora borealis and the stars used are from the oc of my photo bank;)
cc: u / ehrwanz
[arr-woo-da](
edith: [with a moon] (
edith # 2: [this one by u / melkor4 is 100x better] (
100% why i clicked. i so want to see someone with lots of time to spare to make us a "three-arruda-moon" t-shirt.
if you have a patreon i get on board
it made me a bit of a "star wars poster", personally!
put it on, dubé looks like a macaque on it. no offense tho. 🤪
i legit almost spit out my sip of water on my mask 😂
fuck, then it's episode 6 anti-vaxx counterattack
tadam: [ :)
make me print this on a cotton watae it's clear and i give it to christmas
"i would like him to pass me in his arms"
so romantic
"oh christian, if it weren't for the 2 meters between you and me ... what a dissident year."
what prose.
what poetry.
what a repeater.
tabarnak ...
nothing more to say, take my upvote!
ok, set up a redbubble and start selling t-shirts
okay, this is poetry. wow. good job, it's magic.
yo you give me the right to print it on a sweater?
in that time, you write a letter of complaint to the company in french saying that it hurt you deeply and you will get coupons to have free for life or something like that!
[you retard.](
is there something to gain if you do a sentence?
toé late! (toilet)
it's bottle there it's real joke! it's not english / french, it's an insult in english "retarded / deficient" surely to say; you really thought who would have a price to win below the cap, we are in 2021 m'men, we give nothing!
zero what? seeing the length of the list of ingredients, i have a hard time believing that there could be zero whats in there ...
the pepsi ones used to say try again retard. that was my first year here 😝😜
gohan's favorite drink
honestly i would laugh.
heheeheh
but coupons are printed in english
zero calories.
we get stuck.
loooooool
sick that
meh, water does the same thing without an endless list of ingredients ...
100% try to push your bottled water agenda lol
well, it's added vitamins and minerals. like almond milk, soy, oats, etc.
indeed ... because it is water and not juice. so same deal, minus the taste, which is the reason why someone would buy the bottle from the post.
yeah, but your electrolytes are big or are you going to get that eh?
but water does not taste good fruits crushed in a sock
/s
some water??!? like in the toilet ?? !!
in my poutine last night.
ahahahah caliss. take all my posivotes !!!
death wall @ casino de montreal.
it's for posts like that that i'm on r / quebec. well done!
i saw him in sho in 2005 sick shit i ate a cap dacié in yeule in the pit gro.
besides, what is he doing these days if gregory? seems like it's done a bit, i haven't seen it in a public event.
sick moshpit
gregory charles mush pit
so hot right now
it's ddéééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééééiiéiiéiiéééiiééiiéééiiéééiiééiiéééiiéiiéééiiéiiéééiiééiiéiiéiiééiiééiiéiiéiiééiiééiiéiiéiiééiiééiiéiiééiiééiiééiiééiiééiiééiiééiiéii
it's me who starts the mosh pit in the greggy shows
a moment of anthology.
hahahahaha
sometimes the headbangers at lost lands on big gregory sale pi there pits on big metal 😂
can we all go to a gregort charles concert and do this? who's with me?
nce edit
nice.
asti, that's a lot of fun
hahahahaha a good one!
do you download it somewhere?
imagine a dubstep "pit" 😂
music?
seriously, it doesn't look like we've aged a day in the last 20 years gregory charles
when greg sings, you cry out loud
i grew up through this video.
yeah we understood 😁
okay, same guys. you will have my vote for best meme 2021.
your video seems more legit indeed.
i have always trashed on gregory.
i'm looking for the youtubepoop that parodies his cover of the song proud mary
it was removed from youtube a few years ago
it's your idea above all, i just have a lot of time to waste today!
well done for the teamwork.
grégory charles, with opening act cannibal corpse
circle pit @ l'étoile de brossard
he broke a leg when he jumped into the crowd at the last metalfest.
i saw grégory charles in a grocery store in montreal yesterday. i told him how cool it was to meet him in person, but i didn't want to be wack and bother him and ask him for pictures or whatever.
he said to me: "oh, like you are doing right now? "
i was a little surprised and all i could say was "huh?" but he kept cutting me off saying "huh?" eh? eh? as he closed and reopened his hand in front of my face. i walked away to continue shopping and heard him laugh as i walked away. when i got there to pay for my things at the cash register i saw him walking out the doors with like fifteen bags of cheese curds in his hands that he hadn't paid for.
the girl at the checkout was very nice and professional and was like, “sir, you have to pay for this. at first he pretended to be tired and not hear her, but eventually turned and brought them back to the counter.
when she took one of the bags of cheese in her hand and began to scan it several times in a row, he asked her to scan them individually, one at a time "to prevent any electrical interference". turned to me and winked at me. i don't even think that's a word. after scanning each bag and then putting them in a big bag and giving her the prize, he kept interrupting her, yawning very loudly.
he has a radio show at wknd
yeah but you're not toff 2min ...
u/savevideobot
[you can use youtube-dl on this video] ( the quality is really better than on reddit and i've made a few changes since then.
i think of you - gino chouinard
[   
next step
oh yes? did you see me in mtl yesterday? i would like to know a little more. how far can you invent anything to make yourself interesting?
so be responsible and honest, it will do you a favor.
pity.
excellent use of copied paste
calisse, you managed to make me laugh to tears 5 times in line with your story ... there's snot everywhere ...
### [view link] (
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
thank you, i was not able to find the name to put
grégory commenting on chu dead!
it is a translation of an old copypasta. should not be taken seriously. 
always there to help a reddit in distress;)
i know that. but my answer [is also a copypasta] ( made by gino chouinard when someone did it!
* $ 1,550 in fines returned on the spot for non-compliance with the curfew
* $ 1550 for reckless action
* $ 490 for obstruction - since she would have refused to identify herself
* $ 540 for driving on a road temporarily closed for safety reasons
\ + towing the vehicle
\ + repressions
\ + increases in insurance premiums
\ + increases in registrations and licenses
nobody going to talk about the policeman who is like 8 and a half feet?
hahahaha there are some who are not the smartest
not the most thawed pogo in the box, that lol
i award the oscar for best actor to the orange bib.
stun honda, not a full tank leaking while the driver is smoking.
i want to know his excuse lol
beautiful cabochon
i wonder what he was going to have for supper.
it was a person illuminated in cursed hahhaha
he's going to sue the city for lack of signs or warning
this is the triple-decker douchebag. a rarity.
where were you going madam?
there is not one who uuuuwuuwu wuuwu here, i have the dua!
he will surely say it's justin troudeau's fault !! 😂
you went full retard man...
[deleted]
potholes are "anti-prosecutions"!
the guy with his family who films his tv to put it on facebook :)
no offence but this is a typical civic driver!
i see above all that the 2 patrollers had parked their pick-up from the ministry of transport on the correct lane and that this forced the motorists to bypass it by the lane with the hole they were inspecting.
[deleted]
if you have to be stupid, you have to be made solid.
could have stayed at home and just collected his ecp but no
as the americans say: go big or go home!
1 fire to be 6 friends, $ 10,000
fire, dangerous in caliss.
it is big but it is yellow bib which is really small.
verbatim the same comment as in the other thread
your comment took me by surprise! you made me laugh!
this is the kind of boyfriend you buy at k-mart.
i'll even add to it, it's not the sharpest pencil in the box.
i'm having a late day and you made me laugh out loud. thank you!!!
clearly nods in it that it's thick.
"forgive me, i'm really made a deal"
the warriors of light.
extra deep pothole hidden under a pool of water.
traffic was supposed to be redirected to the service road, the eastbound freeway was blocked.
it doesn't seem like a roadblock for the hole in the road anymore.
the highway was closed for part of the evening and night for emergency repairs to a main line. the highway was a real river a few moments ago. so there were roadblocks for the works. as the articles say.
their
you can easily see in the video that the street is very decolise
those who escape the darwin award, yes.
yeah, even compared to the orange bib, the guy in yellow looks five feet tall!
click, pof, jles i lsiboir
more like the kind of blonde you buy at dollorama.
not the penguin that slides the furthest ...
<3 you're welcome i guess haha
i think that has almost slipped too, but at first sight it's comical as it is gesticular
hahahahahaha
wild guess then: maybe he took this lane to avoid passing near the police on the open lane because of the curfew?
details, i was talking about the 2 wide lanes of the service road. the giant in the orange bib looks like the guy from the ministry, he must be too colossal for the world to tell him he's not too bright. when you inspect a hole, you park in front of it next to it.
it was a broken aqueduct that caused the pavement to collapse.
we've been debating a lot of criminal law for a long time on this sub, and for me it's usual because it's my area of work, but i think a good point of these debates is that more people have noticed in how much this code is calisse de marde and only deserves to be burned.
i want independence, if only to be able to rewrite this legislative horror as in the world.
also fun fact: to become a business corporation, you have the choice between two parallel laws that provide more or less the same rules: the business corporations act (lsa, quebec) and the canada business corporations act ( cbca, canada).
the cbca is so badly written that the tactic of bar students is to study the lsa, learn the few differences with the cbca, and on the exam answer everything using quebec law and then use the code concordance table to put the section of canadian law. it works, and it saves you the trouble of trying to figure out some of the worst-drafted articles in the country.
what does this have to do with autism?
quebec law is hybrid and quebec is among the best lawyers in the world.
change my mind.
small question for quebec history buffs here ... i have often heard that the quebec civil code was inspired by the french civil code put in place by napoleon. however, when napoleon came to power in 1799, it had been 36 years since new france had been ceded to great britain, and napoleon, if he had ambitions in relation to america, was much more interested. in the west indies than in canada. to my understanding, closer ties between quebec and france would not be reestablished until two centuries later, with de gaulle.
why then should the civil code of quebec be based on that of a metropolis with which it no longer had any connection when the civil code was put in place? did the province of quebec / bas-canada have more connection with france than i thought? or did the napoleonic code replace an older "royal" civil code, which was nevertheless different from english common law?
california should be added to the image. they too make use of the civil code imported from france.
it's even more complicated than that (and i could be wrong about some details).
it should be noted that in france before the revolution, there was a situation of legal pluralism, there was not just one law but several laws, because france had several "[countries] ( // upload. wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/a0/pays_d%27etat.svg) ", and there were several [sovereign courts or parliaments] ( map_of_parlement_% 28ancien_r% c3% a9gime% 29-fr.svg) (contrary to what we hear today, it was a court not a legislature ... although in a customary system, the difference is not clear). the king of france, as absolute as he was, had the duty to respect the legal customs of the countries which were subject to him, so he theoretically did not have the right to come and impose royal laws to replace local laws governing private law. . if he tried, parliaments refused to register his laws by deeming them contrary to existing law, which the king could overturn by making a bed of justice (by showing up in parliament and directly ordering parliamentarians to register his law ).
at the beginning of colonization, it was a happy mess because the colonists were judged according to the law in force in their (french) province of origin! to simplify matters, it was decided that the "coutume de paris" would be the only legal code in force in the french colonies. the "coutume de paris" is essentially the same as the british "common law", but instead of being an english customary law established by the english courts, it was a french customary law originating in the parliament of paris and based on legal customs enforced by, and jurisprudence established by, the parliament of paris (again, it was a supreme court, not a legislature, but judges in a jurisprudential system are also somewhat legislator).
when new france was ceded to the king of great britain, great britain finally decided that it was easier to continue to apply the custom of paris to the private law of "canadians" (- french). this was not unusual, let us mention that the british courts recognized a "[scottish law] ( different from common law.
it was only later that the parliament of lower canada decided to codify private law, in 1865, inspired by the napoleon code. however, it should be noted that despite the existence of a private law code, the quebec system is not really a civil law system but rather a hybrid. in the sense that in civil code systems elsewhere in the world, judges do not have jurisprudential power, the decisions of a judge are not binding on other judges of equal or inferior courts. the justice system in france is also inquisitorial (the judge must actively seek to establish justice) rather than adversarial (where the judge is a neutral and impartial arbiter between two parties), while quebec is caught with the adversarial system itself. if we have a civil code.
in short, if we can summarize:
|| common law | quebec law | french civil law |
|:-|:-|:-|:-|
| source of law | customs and statutes | civil code | civil code |
| case law? | yes | yes | no |
| system | adversarial | adversarial | inquisitorial |
the patrimony.....
except that the not only the roc ignores the existence of the civil code (and therefore does not really care), the criminal code is, in canada, managed by the federal and not by the provinces (there are criminal codes for each state in the us including the federal code).
oh come on. you can criticize canada and the us as much as you want but absolutely no need to criticize people with autism at the same time.
just don't mention the legacy of code noir ....
it’s just a shame that certain parts of the code are too restrictive. 
looking at you art. 58 and 393.
[removed]
what is a code concordance table, let's explain
i confirm for the bar study lol
also fun fact, the canadian criminal code is a reject of england, based on the “stephen code”, rejected by the english because too bad. there was a complete overhaul project, which i studied during my baccalaureate for a course ... esteem that would have made it clearer, but it was abandoned, lack of political courage at the time.
the current ica is largely based on the cbca, so i disagree that the cbca is poorly written. besides the charter, it is probably the most federal law with the most civil law writing. it's just easier to learn lsa and use the concordance table.
moreover, i work regularly with the companies act (rlrq c. c-38), since this law still applies to npos, and this law is much worse written than the cbca.
what code ? the napoleonic code?
i have my bar exam in two weeks and i haven't opened the lcsa yet, luckily the concordance table thing seems to be enough to get by.
criss i created a joint stock company the other day, i open the all is well form, "law on companies of alberta", "law on companies of british columbia", "law on companies of canada" (i don't have the right law names but you get the point). i say to myself, well, it's fine there is a law per province, and a federal law. i knew that i wanted a quebec society so that promised to be a touch of cake.
i scroll down, boom tabarnak, i arrive in quebec: there are 13 laws under which you can create a company in quebec!
i finally did business with lex start.
this is exactly what got me stuck on this meme! it would have been good, but the autistic screeching was just unnecessary and could be hurtful.
civil law is generally quite orderly and easy to understand. common law is a bit more complicated.
you did not know? the people on the autism binary are either geniuses or morons.
you recognize this second group by the fact that they do not share your opinion.
it is seriously one of the worst jigs to be used yet.
this is a joke. take the step to the first degree.
fun fact: the fact that 1- quebec lawyers are trained in civil law and common law and 2- that they must be able to work in french and english (several common law judgments are only in english, when they come from other provinces) means that there is a disproportion of quebecers who work at the international criminal court compared to what it should statistically be.
it also helps that the first icc president did his law degree at [the university of montreal!] (
guy bertrand.
just a joke, we clench in terms of rights :)
[the wikipedia article on the ccq is rather well written:] (
at the time of new france, canada was governed by french law, in particular the coutume de paris. after the british conquest, the royal proclamation of 1763 abolished french law and imposed english law. however, in 1774, by the quebec act, the british parliament restored french civil law, while maintaining british criminal law, thus creating in quebec the dual legal system that still exists today.
we can therefore say that the civil law tradition in quebec is older than the napoleon code, even if the latter is one of the best-known historical elements of quebec bijuralism.
the napoleon code of 1804 is pretty much the first work to codify all of private civil law. it is the one that inspired the vast majority of civil codes that exist in the world. it helps that this system exists mostly in europe and that napoleon conquered just about everything that existed in europe between portugal and russia in the following years.
the law that was greatly influenced by him in quebec is the civil code of lower canada, adopted in 1866, because quebec civil law applied french law before the cession to england (the custom of paris in particular). , which became very unviable when this right itself had been transformed into a civil code 60 years earlier.
quebec law therefore had to be modernized and this logical development led to a general civil code.
i know that several people have already answered you but i allow myself to give you the link to an excellent article written by professor john ec brierley on the process which led to the codification of civil law in quebec. if you are ever interested in taking it a step further: [ content / uploads / pdf / 353355-brierley.pdf).
to put it simply, civil law is, day to day, a much more important social component to ordinary people than the criminal code.
people, today as before, work, marry, die and buy things. all these activities are governed by the civil code. it should also be noted that a civil code regulates many practices which are traditional (ie people will do it even if it is prohibited because that is how we have always done it).
if we come back to conquest, it must be understood that the people who inhabit the territory have been operating for more than a century on a law that is essentially french. great britain, to avoid alienating the people, concedes to them the maintenance of their civil custom. it would have been suicidal to try to replace him and honestly it was inevitable that the french civil code would be maintained.
as others have written, the private law of the province of quebec was essentially the custom of paris, the royal edicts and ordinances that applied in new france, the decisions of the superior / sovereign council of quebec, etc.
there are conflicting opinions as to whether the royal proclamation of october 1763 abolished this right, but the relevant provisions of the quebec act of 1774 declared for greater certainty that french law before 1763 continued to apply. '' apply in private matters, but not with regard to public law for the most part and criminal law in particular. and as it was not very clear at the time, what constituted french law in private matters, if memory serves, carleton had requested a compilation of the main provisions of the coutume de paris and that the archives be searched. of the french administration. these compilations have surely helped future compilers and you can easily find the edicts and ordinances and other such documents on banq, google books, etc.
in the controversy over the supposed abolition of french private law, it should be noted that the king of great britain could, legally, in domestic law, abolish french private law and legislate as he wanted for a conquered colony, but he did not do so. could more after october 1763 because he had granted an assembly to the province of quebec, an assembly which the governor could convene when the circumstances would lend itself to it. see campbell v. lobby. on the other hand, the king was also bound personally in international law and his honor was committed there by the capitulations of quebec and montreal and the treaty of paris of 1763. moreover, the interpretations of the royal proclamation are convincing in a sense like in the other. in short, it was contentious at the time and it remains so, but the law of 1774 made it an essentially academic question.
law schools were still in their infancy in 1860, and competent forensic scientists probably weren't running the streets, so it was easier to start with an existing code than to start from scratch.
and scotland too.
louisiana rather not?
i disagree with you on the issue of jurisprudence. quebec case law does not rule, but the interpreter (which i can admit, is close to creating law when you have to define what a defamation fault is, for example). the argument that the courts follow the interpretations given by other courts, particularly those of appeal, can be replicated throughout the pure civil law world. for example, in my study of austrian law, the same principle is replicated: the decisions of interpretation of the higher courts are maintained even if there is no legal imperative to do so, by the simple logic that 'a divergent decision will be overturned on appeal. i would argue that although the common law makes this conception stronger in quebec, it is nonetheless very similar to what takes place in other civil law jurisdictions.
as for the system, it's true (and a little unfortunate) that it is adversarial, but i would make the argument that with the new 2016 cpc, it is \ * weak adversarial. it's a nitpick on the other hand, you're basically right.
also, i could be wrong, but from memory the custom of paris was fairly uniformly applied to new france from the 1660s onwards. from memory, it coincides with the filles du roy, who were predominantly parisian. talon wanted to harmonize the law of the colony, and therefore half by force of circumstance, half by political decision, parisian custom prevailed before the conquest.
it's wrong. any roc company (or foreign company) wishing to do business in the province of quebec must comply with the ccq, as well as all other quebec provincial laws.
we must not forget that quebec is the 2nd largest canadian province in population and therefore the 2nd largest market for a large number of industries.
ah, not quite. the provinces have full control over the criminal code; it's just that she doesn't proclaim it.
the proof: for years, quebec did not prosecute doctors who performed abortions even though it was a criminal act at the time. better yet, the raamq paid for abortions.
and the federal government was never able to do anything about it ...
(federal courts are only used to adjudicate administrative and non-criminal disputes).
fuck louis xiv
a link?
before reading the articles, i thought you might have eric c. lola through the throat (which may be legitimate, small note). on the other hand, in reading, it is in relation to the change of the name during the marriage.
may i ask you why do you dislike it?
sort by rising on big subs
it is an excel table with two columns: on the left, the section of the lsa, on the right, the similar section in the cbca.
[example of a concordance table between the ccbc and the ccq (pdf) (source: soquij)] (
it is a table which lists the articles of a law and puts next to each its equivalent in another law. so let's say that you know that article x of the quebec law gives the deadline for recording something, you look in the table and you will have the article of the federal law which gives this deadline.
well your opinion is very legitimate, but the similarity of the lsa works a bit in the sense i was talking about: given the atrocity of the companies act (admittedly, it is atrocious), the new lsa copies the rules but in my opinion. humble opinion expresses them much more clearly, and the structure is much easier to follow than at the federal level. federal writing is indeed less worse than for other laws, but its structure is difficult to follow for people who have had a week of classes to remember their class from 2 years ago and who have to study 5 or 6 subjects.
no the canadian criminal code
you messed around on reddit instead of studying! 😉
serious? which ones?
as far as i know, there are 3: the lsa, the law on corporations for an npo, worse the civil code for a partnership. what are the others?
exactly! and it is needlessly hurtful, i confirm ...
i know, i'm sure there would have been alternatives to keep it the same ...
nothing to do with autism
it has nothing to do with autism. this meme is discriminatory and shameful.
... and how is this related to autism? am i more complicated because i am not neurotypical?
[montreal drift](
rocket league's new update looks sick!
come on! cascade!
it is not false...
everyone has their own style, we don't judge!
i miss my old grand vitara in chives when i see the first good snowfall, i spent hours going drifting in the small neighborhoods ಥ‿ಥ
i laughed so much
classic.
the bottom photo was taken in pennsylvania if i remember correctly.
i don't even need to click i know what
snow day is already the only real way to play rocket league anyway.
oh no? yet i understood everything.
and it's always a good click
that's exactly what it made me think about, but i thought the joke wouldn't be understood since the mode is a bit niche. me, i'm rotten at snowy day.
snow day is the only game mode where i can claim to be almost passably proficient at times.
i rode champion for 2 games in snow day, quite intense
it gives me the forest game vibes :)
we could make an rpg
it reminds of the beach club!
it's really hot! go read "they ran america", volume 2 of remarkable forgotten, s by serge bouchard. it's mind blowing, seriously! these worlds were metal in ordeal! your illustration immediately brought me back to these stories, it must have been boring!
edith: spelling.
(very good!)
ah, i no longer remembered the "[abitation de qvebecq] ( ... :)
do you have other works of this style?
i really like the historical theme chosen and the whimsical effect of the color palette!
it would be necessary to specify that the color has been added, the original photo is in black and white.
it's from you?
it seems to me that someone has just died ...
i have already visited the town of [honfleur] ( 2e0! 7i16384! 8i8192) in france. the city from which he left several times to make his travels. it's pretty impressive what he accomplished. all that a guy.
nice. when is the best time to create an rpg on it?
it reminds me of champlain, but with a hp bar above his head.
who took the picture?
are you just me or do i hear fortress playing in the background?
really beautiful, i love the use of colors!
on dirait red dead redemption
wow
looks like a rust base
a large base but all in wood which is raid with a pickaxe cut
or a c4
estiiiiiii that i maaaaange of the same business!
if some of you are interested, a superb quebec mini-series (6 episode of 26-27 minutes) made a few years ago on champlain: [champlain's dream] ( -reve-de-champlain / video / 193419051).
i listened to it again 2 days ago. looks like i can't get enough! it fascinates me!
magnificent work, really beautiful. it still makes me uncomfortable because of the history of this kind of image, it's colonizing imagery. where are our native ancestors who shared their food with the colonists because they lacked it? can you imagine being a native, seeing this gang arrive there, who drink all summer long to make the most beautiful fort in the world just to realize that they haven't thought too much about food? doh! not their fault and they are paying the big price, sad to think that they have lifted a cross instead of stocking up on food but that says a lot about what is being prepared.
your talent is undeniable, it's just the subject that reminds me that the authoctones are still the invisible people. you still motivated me to listen to a little documentary on champlain and then i want to read his newspapers :) you're super talented, he's a critic of the subject and not of you, an old man who did a lot of art at school and your image made me think a lot. have a good weekend and continue your art even if you don't agree with me and my hipster woke sensibilities :)
edit: i think i mix with the foundation of tadoussac for the food coming from the authoctones their first winter, not sure.
i thought about the same!
question not report. is it good as a game? basically, what is it?
i came here to say the same hahaha
the games that take place in quebec at that time there are two; assassin's creed 3 (there is a mission in quebec) and assassin's creed rogue (in the far north) seems that there are no shortage of studios here, maybe it's at the sales level ...
get out
this book is beautiful for real. i am due to reread it.
bouchard is a formidable storyteller and an inspiring anthropologist.
no, sorry. and thank you so much for the comment, it's very nice.
it's from philippe
he really wanted to establish a lasting french presence in america at a time when it was a vague project. he had to scramble from start to finish at the king's court to secure the funding and interest of the french crown.
when my aunt lived in saint-malo, i was struck by the similarity with old quebec ...
coureur des bois would make a good rpg. great wild distances between rare points of civilization. hellish winters. all the misery in the world has to bring back enough to make a profit. a few more or less peaceful amerindian villages where you don't know what to expect. english people in the south who don't want to know anything about you. one could represent the consequences of the lack of women at the beginning of the colony as well. with a good realistic nutrition / sleep / transportable weight system.
could be a dynamic evolution which represents the development of the colony along the river and periods of wars.
and then you're trying to sell that to the americans and they say "i don't get it, how do i play the good guys?" : p
that's enough
the famine episode that you are relating and the help provided by the natives dates from the time of cartier. on the other hand, champlain's installation on île ste-croix was a fatal disaster and the winter of 1608-1609 in quebec saw the death of 20 of champlain's 29 companions. in short, surviving in such conditions at this time remains something out of the ordinary.
survival horror, in my own book
with a little story and a zest of mutant cannibal humanoids, don't forget the gore!
basically your plane crashes and your lost your son in the crash, after the game starts.
it's a really good game. try it, it's not too expensive.
a playable mission at 3?
hahaha criss i laughed
i know reading book 1, "they made america". a little less well written, i think, but these women ... equally impressive, really! they had more balls than many men!
don't hesitate to make / post others, really, it's very evocative.
i just saw the name of the person, miserable. it is really very beautiful, the composition, the colors, magnificent!
yesii !!!! such!
:)
thank you! i am quite distracted by nature :) right now i am listening to a good little documentary on champlain in the context of the time, that is to say the religious tentions, if that interests you:  .com / watch? v = 2_5ci73bd4k
> in short, surviving in such conditions at this time remains something out of the ordinary.
even now, there was a death in downtown montreal a few days ago.
ps: yesterday evening i was reading the wiki pages of frontenac's wife, very interesting!
thank you !
to be checked out. thx.
it's tempting.
more or less report, it is developed by a company of vancouver (endnight games) and the environment is not bad "boreal forest".
plus ... the sequel is coming out this year! ;)
have you tried greedfall?
i love it haha. with the accent plus it's perfect.
teaching english and its accent in france \ * chef's kiss \ * 👌
ps: i got screwed, she doesn't seem to be french, just imitating the accent. realistic.
"porcupicicle" lol
to spiqu'inne ingliche no worse she there
i lost it at tock tock tock tock
i do not know if there are people among you who remember the restaurant * le petit moulinsart * in the old port, but its owner (who was also the illegitimate son of jacques brel) had also died, by a ledge of ice that fell on his head.
it's still a little scary.
i burst out laughing at really funny "porcupicicle"
8/10 with ice.
melting snow and icicles. don't stay!
the sword of damacles
it must be because it's 6am, but howl i laughed
last week it was the snowblower that my neighbor passed on his roof ...
where are the tempos?
20/10!
question can be silly, can you really be dangerous?
* chef's kiss * i love it
my son yesterday was playing with an icicle as big as my arm ...
i should really clean my roof.
i lost it at pucupicicle
my ears are bleeding
emphasis adds magic to video!
few english speakers can pronounce the french "on" (ɔ̃), so she probably at least learned french at some point
«toc toc toc toc» 😂
hahahaha, you just made my morning 😂
ohhhh the big meta.
font de nehj ay de glahssonz!
damocl*ice* 🧊
y-said montreal not longueil;)
they are not allowed in many neighborhoods in montreal.
in ahuntsic and longueuil, where people have space for parking!
apparently 15 deaths per year in the usa.
"deaths by icicles - 10 chilling tales of people killed by icicles" 
take the pi test come back and tell us
[deleted]
holy shit!
i don't mind, but i rub shoulders with zero buildings. i imagine if i stand with my mouth wide open under a building it can be dangerous.
for a photographer, it is "the photo of a lifetime" ...
hahaha check le clown
ok ... it was just for fun
:p
why is this photo not front page ????? perfection.
ayoye
just like that it almost looks like a caricature of chapleau xd
there's a jaded black-headed duck leading him.
it surprises me who looks outside (without his mask) knowing full well that 22,000 photographers are after him
wow! funny adon!
nice.
i'm a little skeptical about this photo, it smacks of montage. the angle of the glass does not give towards an intersection but towards the sidewalk. worse, a traffic light often has 2 red lights, where is the other?
what makes me sad is that we deliberately put the presumption of innocence in the garbage, it's not perfect, but god damn it, we're not in the ussr!
"toum drum tss"
sorry ... she was too easy
front page of what?
you hurt me
it sounds like a song by normand l'amour
only ?
you underestimate his arrogance
[skeptics will be confused!] (
wait ......... the world thinks this is a real non-faked photo?!?
from what i understand, he was convicted in '98, and it is not his first charges. there it was just something that resurfaced.
the presumption of innocence meant that he is not in prison today. did you read what the judge said? the victim looked more believable. rozon's testimony was clearly invented there was too much detail. but, she might lie free then.
then, in terms of public opinion: the presumption of innocence is not that. it exists to avoid putting people in jail, but you have the right to think what you want. you have the right to find someone unappealing because your friend has told you things. you have the right to dislike bell or videotron even if you've never been with them based on what you've heard. you have the right to have an opinion on rozon based on all the charges that have come out.
rumors have always existed. especially in the small villages before. today you also have the internet to propagate them so it can be dangerous you really don't have to believe an anonymous testimony. but rozon, really. convicted in 1999, a group of 14 women, several of whom were not anonymous in 2017. prosecution in 2019 ...
* bad-dum-fallsoverlikekeithmoon *
all.
from reddit? it's a site with cool business. www.reddit.com
to my animal heart
the canaaaardd
nooiiirre head
conducteeeeuuurrr
driving there
the clown
the clown
mugger
they were just that
indeed, there seems to be a traffic light above the bus stop. i am confused!
from - from - from! what a beautiful du!
yep, it's pretty obvious it's just a really good photo.
i think. it's brought in as a real photo by op and some people comment with stuff like "wow funny adon" and "a photo of a lifetime".
the immigrant from within
*stevejobsperfection.jpeg*
i know the photographer and i can confirm that it is a real photo. press photographers do not retouch their photos, it is against the code of ethics.
edit: a fault.
we are not the same
and then yet
we forget "you provoke me deees douuleuuurs"
we marvel at the same spring
i make sure i am visible and audible when i pedal at night. i always have a duct road rocket hitting my helmet and screaming like hell to make sure everyone sees and hears me. before, i used a megaphone to repeat: be careful i am on my bicycle. i stopped because it was tough to guide the bike with one hand. anyway, at my destination, my throat has a screeching tone, but at least i'm alive.
what i love most about the great and eternal debate between motorists and cyclists is that one treats the other as if they are two mutually exclusive states.
as if being a motorist necessarily implies not being a cyclist.
almost as if both are races, genders, nationalities.
i cycle, i drive a car. not at the same time of course (though, to consider?). why do we always complain about 'cyclists' as if we were talking about gypsies arriving from abroad to upset our way of life?
when my children ride their bikes in the street, i don't hate them with my motorist heart.
there is something frankly unhealthy about the debate, and i don't know why it's like that.
reminder to valet drivers: it is getting dark very early on, so the time has come to open your queneuilles and watch the cyclists.
good road !
very important to have lights.
but don't go overboard on the lumens! lately, i'm noticing more and more super bright lights and it's blinding others you come across.
and if you have such a light, don't forget to point it down! by car, we do not drive on the high ground in the city, ditto for a bike.
repost it a 3rd time to make sure they understand it.
i just moved here and find most riders only wear dark colors. it's like suicide in my opinion
you also have to be doubly careful because motorists are less expecting to see bikes at this time of year.
in fact, a reminder to everyone: in the evening, we adapt our behavior! we slow down in a chariot / bicycle, we make ourselves visible, etc.
same thing for runners like me! decathlon has $ 10 lights that even have a red light. i patented a clip which means that i have a light at the front and a “flash” at the back. think about your lives guys! have a good trip!
it will be all dark!
it is also time that motorists did not try to run over me to save 5sec to get into their yards, stop in the middle of the tracks, open their doors and get into their vehicle without looking.
thank you!
the tanks too, it looks like there are some who are not used to turning on their lights ...
where do you buy your lights from?
i have had so many scares with pedestrians and cyclists recently it freaks me out. they all wear dark colours with zero visibility. when i walk at night i wear a flashing light that i got at dollarama. use your heads, people.
the last time i saw a bixi bike it was illegal to ride at night. the same goes for police bikes.
who get crushed the damn cyclists
yes monsieur le curé!
i very often see cyclists who have no reflectors or lights on their bikes ... in the car, you can hardly see them, often at the last second when you get very close to them!
tse ride on christophe-colomb dressed in black without reflectors or light in the evening ... one moment is looking for trouble!
help you!
lol .. i do what i want to squeal, you're in my mother
no but lol ...
fucking funny how opinionated the world is on the subject of bicycles on the road
(i have already stored my bike for the winter anyway ... jtun car driver wack)
or at worst put away your bike because it frets
also to make your stop caliss
then stop running red lights without even looking left and right
itt: montrealers so entitled that they do not realize the dangerousness of cycling on the road in winter and downvote everything that moves
you forgot to say that they should also increase their vigilance and respect the signs, but i admit it's not something they normally do anyway.
so make your damn stops like us, and that's going to be enough already… you are legally obliged to stop at a stop sign as much as cars but there is not a single osti on a bicycle that does, that i have seen. must say that i live in the suburbs and not in montreal.
[deleted]
the mental image that this comment generated is hilarious! thank you
there are megaphones that record a sequence and play it repeatedly, no need to keep yelling everything yourself. it's one of the most pissing off inventions in the world actually, there are plenty of stores around here that use it to advertise things or say "** wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. . wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. wear your mask. your mask wear your mask wear your mask **
i wonder how the world who work there saw no fools. their brains must be made mush.
"to make sure"  => s'assurer
- grammar nazi
one does not prevent the other, i am cycling 3 seasons and no later than this morning and i was on my commute and i passed stupid motorists. when i am in a tank i also come across a lot of stupid motorists and i hate him as much but at least my life is not in danger because of their lack of attention / skills.
there are also reckless and entitled cyclists and i hate them just as much and don't mind letting them know that they make all cyclists look bad.
when i drive i hate cyclists and when i cycle i hate motorists. i think that's what it is to be from quebec
i think there is a separation between cyclists who use their bikes to go to work and for their regular commute vs. those who use the bike for sport or leisure.
one of the two kills the other.
i'll let you guess the source of what brings the "unhealthy" into the debate.
i just have a problem with cyclists who think they are king of the streets, as if if they get hit it's not their fault. well yes i know, if it's not your fault bravo ... but it's you who is picked up at the hospital.
you have a lot of motorists who are not careful. it is a good thing for the cyclist to make sure that they don't get hit by an idiot in the car, since you are the most vulnerable.
reasonable people do not complain about cyclists, they complain about "cyclist osties".
someone believing themselves to be the center of the world, or lacking education in driving will cause as much inconvenience to others in the car as in the bicycle.
the thing is, a lot of people think that the road safety code is not applicable for bicycles (or other electric zézette lately), so they put themselves in a bunch of dangerous situation without even knowing it, and maintain a bunch of reprehensible habits due to lack of education.
i am quite of the opinion that there is a greater proportion and frequency of problematic behavior among cyclists than motorists in general. without saying that cyclists in general are problematic, the behavior of recalcitrant fuels the cynicism of the general population and creates a climate of "us vs them" which is not really holy.
coupled with that the fact that the police hardly ever intervene at the level of the infringements of the code of road safety caused by the "osties of cyclists", and the lack of urban planning which can accommodate cyclists in a sustainable and safe way, it does not there is absolutely no chance of improving the perception and the relationship between the two groups of 'dividus.
if you are biking in the winter in a storm, your just cave.
a cyclist no reflectors dress in black, you might well open your cattails the guy must make the effort to be visible before asking others to ensure his own safety. op probably didn't do the post because he passed a cyclist with a reflective jacket.
you can be sure that on my jacked chrome civic, there are no dim lights. when i arrive, the whole neighborhood knows it!
what bothers me the most is the strobe lights on the bikes. whether it's as a pedestrian / bike or a car, it shoots my eyes and my concentration crazy.
people can't tell the difference between a beacon and a positioning light, it's sad.
> don't forget to point it down!
amen.
worse c ben correct c wanted.
in some regions, such as quebec city, it is sometimes safer to be invisible to motorists rather than the other way around.
especially with the number of wineries on the road in quebec!
often we just don't see them at all.
on the other hand yesterday i had a first. a cyclist was in the opposite direction in the middle lane on sherbrooke without a reflector. i saw her when she passed by me while i was waiting to turn between two medians.
there was no traffic at least, i gave her a little sound of the horn with an air of wtf ma'am. she got off her bike, walked over the median to return to the right direction of traffic.
fascinating how the self-preservation instinct is absent in some people.
i see the opposite, in the evening the tanks go faster in the residential streets ...
i don't see why slow down, your tires / brakes work less well in the dark?
shut up!
casual murder attempt to save 5 seconds, we know that here
ghost cars.
i know that's not the purpose of the post, but it's really well written, well done xd
a reference to kamelott, a dad who loves his daughter, roller skates ... i am moved!
a great virtual hug to both of you.
it's the little details of pandemic life like this that saddens me and, on occasion, infuriates me. it's not that small inconveniences like this are more important, in and of themselves, than deaths from covid or the state of the health network. but since they are small, they are often invisible. they don't seem to weigh anything in the balance of pros and cons. except when they concern us directly, we forget them.
the problem is, they start to pile up in damn, little annoyances. those linked to the curfew have been piling up for four months. those related to other restrictions, for even longer. they remain invisible - but their weight becomes more and more important. and we may end up realizing that we have sacrificed much more than we have gained, because we continually neglected the seemingly small weight of small inconveniences in the balance of inconveniences.
all that to say that i'm happy to read this kind of anecdote, which reminds us of all the little ways in which our lives have been lost in quality. and that is important, that too.
very well written, too :)
i am 31 years old, no blonde, no child. try to meet people with a curfew at 8:00 am, public places close, bars, restaurants too. i do a lot of outdoors but the majority of people have little shade so it's hard to meet there too. i'm sick of the pandemic and especially the restrictions. i'm turning badly. before the covid it was already not going too well, but i was getting back in hand. but we've been in this for a year and i'm sincerely starting to wonder if i want to live like this for a long time.
of all the restrictions over the past year, this is the one that makes the least sense to me. quebec is not a country with european or indian density, so i find it difficult for people in regions to have to return home by 8 p.m., especially with the arrival of good weather and the twilight which is delayed from evening to night. evening.
even in the big centers it seems crazy to me.
i am moving. i've been moving for 1 month. no way to bring anything forward during the week because i arrive in my new home, i pick up 2-3 things and i have to return immediately unless i sleep on the ground. it is a new construction and despite the contractor's cleaning it is still dirty. the latter tells me that he switches company every 2-3 months because they force their asses at the beginning and after that it starts to slack. the company he hired this time apparently didn't know that the drawers can be removed and that the moldings have a top. i had the cabinets full of sawmills. the wardrobe doors were clean on the passing side but on the wardrobe side not. examples among many others. finally, i did everything again or rather tried to do it.
i had taken a week off, i made a lot of progress but there was still more to do. i took two more days for telecoms and moving my furniture. finally i said to myself fuck it and then i brought in the stock after briefly wiping what i had to do. i dare not take more in case i catch covid and find myself on the ass without pay. i am alone so no partner to take up the slack.
today i went to our house to unpack the stock. i have made good progress. i had reached the door of the on-board refrigerator. i had the turn handle and one of the hinges done when i realize that all of a sudden it is starting to get dark. i check the time on my cell. 7:57 p.m. fuuuuuuck and i'm kicking my door out. well, you might as well finish the job. i leave after 8 p.m., i arrive in my old home at 8:30 p.m. fortunately, not a police cross, but i think it's stupid that i could be fined for traveling from home to home on my own.
worse, i need furniture, including a whole bedroom set. but the gym tarla had to trigger an outbreak and legault to close all the non-essential stores. great, can't buy me a bed. i got some cheap amazon platform to come and crunched my laundry in nowhere drawers while i waited. as soon as my cheap platform esti arrives i will finally be able to sleep in my new house.
very nice text!
i also share your somewhat ambiguous opinion on the curfew.
i was always going to take walks and do my jogging between midnight and 2 a.m., in short when there is hardly anyone in the streets, because i don't want to deal with social anxiety and the crowded world. check me in while i practice.
i understand the curfew on the one hand, so that people don't scatter and party and spread the virus, but i would have found it no worse that we were at least allowed to walk outside in a radius of x km around his residence, a bit like dogs.
i think that's what makes me kid the most. having had a dog i could have continued to walk / run quietly instead of needing to get prescribed anxiety pills.
i don't think the curfew is working, it's a symbolic gesture that a lot of people "don't care" about.
the reason for this sacrifice is that we know that keeping the airport, schools and industry open causes the 3rd wave.
self-flagellate with a curfew that does nothing because we don't want to do anything about other business
the end date of the curfew would have to be announced before march 1st. it should have been around march 15th.
this stupid uselessness lasts well too long.
the curfew has gone on long enough.
the other day, a friday evening, my friend texts me, at 7.15pm: "i feel like a big pile of shit." i ask him what happened, to which he replies: "nothing. nothing happens. nothing ever."
at 7:30 p.m., i call him: "come on." he doesn't understand, the curfew is approaching. i said to him: "take your toothbrush. you're going to sleep at my place! we're cheating!"
it did so much good. a friday night when something's going on. where i'm not in bed at 11 p.m. we listened to music, a marc rebillet show, and we dreamed of the time when we could go dancing.
the majority pay for a minority who unfortunately do not want to listen. it's sad!
very nice text
fuck the curfew.
close your stores early, but let the world benefit.
i leave at 6:00 am and come home around 7:30 pm. time for supper and i can't go out.
what is this shit? it's not by spanking rollerblading or taking a walk that we are going to hit the covid.
of all the measures, the curfew is the one i least understand its usefulness.
it's just unnecessary.
as for my daily jog, i'm an evening guy. nothing better than going to do it in the middle of the evening, fresh air and zero traffic. i can run wherever i want without fear of suffocation from diesel trucks, buses, or people smoking in their tanks.
asteur, i am caught to go there at 5:00 in the morning or in broad daylight. it's crazy how my performance is affected.
my only problem with the cf is that in practice, we are all outside at the same time. not able to go anywhere without crossing 150 people ... i just don't see the advantage.
you demonstrated why there is a curfew ... the purpose of the curfew is precisely that people do not go out to other people who are not of their bubbles. in this case your family and the grandmother ...
tonight, coming back from dinner with my parents with the children, we arrived at 8:05 pm at my place. okay, the weather is nice, what do we do? "dad, can we go to the park by bike please?" well yes my big one. we took our bikes and went to the park.
3 criminals cries.
i would have liked that, me, to stay 5 minutes from my grandparents ... but no, we had to take the train in the evening, and we would arrive the next day (and vice versa to come back). faque, we didn't go there often ...
yeah. honestly, i understand. the tite has done nothing wrong and has to live with a pandemic at such a young age. luckily, you and your tite are not sick, so already it is something good and even if you could not go to her grandparents, she was able to enjoy a beautiful day with her father this which is a good memory and a great experience to live in these difficult times.
me, i'm not with my parents anymore. i have moved and they live relatively far away. living alone amplifies my negative feelings. often i called my parents to say hello and it ended up crying. even though my situation is different and your daughter is younger than me, i can tell you that it feels good to let off steam every once in a while. the day ended in tears but i assure you that this tender moment in which she feels the support of her father in a sad moment will also become a positive memory.
it's easy to lose hope and get fed up with the situation, but you can't give up when the going gets tough. the reality is that this silliness of confinement, distancing, curfew and masks could still last close to a year. we can either let ourselves go in a hole of negativity, anger and despair (which has happened to me several times this year) or we can take charge and try to do the best we can. to get up when you fall. to take advantage of the beautiful moments that are becoming increasingly rare. to keep hope.
my father is not there for several months, i am the one who takes care of his cat while he waits. i will see him once a day to feed him pi change his water (no need to make his litter, there is a cat door pi goes outside).
at first, it happened to me to remember who should take care of it after the curfew. * i guess * he will eat tomorrow! since then i put an alarm on my cell every day so that it doesn't happen.
my dad bought some beers that i like so i could go chill with the cat once in a while. often i can't, because it's too late. or if not, it's not for a long time. i wish i could spend the evening chilling with the cat.
i understand you...
my boyfriend and i are night owls. we work until 5 pm, we have supper, and then we are on the screens; zoom conferences with family or friends, dnd evening, online yoga. we are a bit addicted to screens (i say from my cell phone), but we make an effort to switch off at 10 p.m., in order to be able to fall asleep at a reasonable time (this is also generally the time when dnd ends, monday and tuesday).
lately, we decided to go out once a day minimum, every day. whether it's for groceries, take-out, a walk, you have to go out every day. and until last winter, we used to walk every night (afterwards, it was too cold and we are pissous). chill, let's start over, that felt good.
so last tuesday, 10:15 p.m., dnd ends, we put on our shoes and our windbreaker and we go outside. we walk maybe 2 minutes before realizing that "shit, curfew ... are we trying to walk anyway, would that be good?" we hear a tank coming and decide not to wait to find out if it's a policeman or not, and we go home, disappointed that we cannot go for a walk and that we haven't really been out today.
and it's boring, because that's going to be it every monday and tuesday. our schedule is literally too tight to go for a walk outside on these days.
i think so hard about parents in these times of pandemic and how difficult it is to deal with not only your own disappointment and frustration, but also those of the children, who often understand the situation (at a certain age, obviously), but so want to move, see their friends, grandma / grandpa and have fun. i am lucky not to have children yet, because we already find it difficult, and we are two adults.
props to you and your big one ... you will "touch", with a little luck we will be able to start seeing each other again by the fall. i give her a big internet hug (and you too, why not), and i'm sure she will become an international champion like her father! :)
thank you all for the reception, for sharing anecdotes and opinions. it's going to be buried through all your comments, but i wanted to say the same :)
also, regarding the legitimacy of the curfew. i am not denying that it has an effect on the pandemic, ultimately i believe that there is an effectiveness linked to it. but let's talk about the war effort.
initially, we went to war against the damn virus. worse, it's okay to wage war on the damn virus. worse the measures and instructions, i see it as a war effort. mask, distancing, hand washing, indoor gatherings: what everyone can contribute to fight the damn virus. then there is the logistics: partial or total closure or reduced capacity of certain establishments. there would also be in the logistics the ventilation of the schools, which belongs to the government.
the curfew, useful be it or not, i see it as a punishment. a punishment that we would not need to give if everyone, without exception, participated in the war effort. the same goes for outdoor gatherings.
some comments denied the unfairness of the situation. bein in my book to me, when you're punished for nothing, it's unfair.
just come to confirm that it is true that it is not fair, as a person who is hardly affected by the effects of the curfew. it pains me a lot to see the annoyances and the discomfort that it generates in many, when it is indeed not clear what it is for. i thought it was a good "boost" measure, but it gets heavy for something more of a toga effect.
your story reminded me of something that happened to me last night with my partner and my sister. we headed for the local creamery (2 minutes away, big max, from my house) and when we arrived, a lady randomly yells at us like she is the last customer to be served to respect the curfew, and she had a bin behind her to mark the end of the line. we tried the same, and we had our ice cream after 5 minutes, like 7:10. the lady dragged her trash every time she walked forward and shouted to passers-by who deigned to look at the creamery 'that it was she last'. curfew creates fuckall and ridiculous situations like that.
nice text. my kids and i have covid and we have to stay all day indoors ... console yourself! think about how many people you are protecting by staying at home. it’s finished!
considering the current state of the epidemiological situation, i think that the curfew is no longer a necessary measure (especially at 8 p.m.).
i'll give you my dog so you can roller skate after 8am! it's made a strange crowd in the streets after the curfew.
one day i was having supper with my mother (yes i cheated oops) and then we realize that it is 7.40 am and it takes me 10 minutes in a tank to get home. i was in rosemont and there was traffic in please, it's like a second rush hour. people are in a hurry, driving like sick so as not to grab tickets past 8am.
is the curfew really a good measure when the majority of outbreaks are in workplaces and not in households? no idea, but according to daddy government it works ...
courage to you (are you going to be fine?
what i find most difficult, personally, is that the weather is finally starting to warm up, the sun is finally starting to set later ... and we are not allowed to walk outside after 8 p.m., even everything alone.
the days just keep getting longer until june. after that, they start to shorten again. we have just a few months left to have the sun after 8 p.m. ... we have had a curfew for four months now, and we still don't have a definitive end date.
i just want to be able to enjoy the balmy spring and summer evenings, even if it's walking alone within a radius of 1km from my apartment.
it is slowly killing me to know that i'm already running out of plenty, because we already don't have a lot at the base, and worse because i work a lot.
times are hard when you live alone, when you work more than full time, and in addition you can hardly enjoy the fresh air. depression is particularly heavy these days.
the hardest part was to impose the curfew. they will keep it as long as public opinion is "fairly favorable" because removing it to put it back in a few weeks / months will be too difficult.
they'll take it off when it's going to be pretty sure that they don't have to put it back on. (in my opinion at the end of may)
it is not false.
very beautiful your text i love. i agree a lot in the same direction as you. at the beginning i was not so much against the curfew, because when we were where we were, i told myself that we had nothing to lose (and anyways the nights were cold and everything was closed). now it's hot and it's a little sweatier. but at the same time ... i look at the figures and i tell myself that yeah ... we can not prove the effects of the curfew. but it's hard to ignore the fact that we are still doing well in terms of cases / hospitalizations. at least we're starting to see the end!
it looks like a story straight out of one of michel rabagliati's comics, pretty feather!
i agree with the measures that make sense to slow the spread of the virus, but the curfew literally serves no purpose. the virus does not spread any faster after 8 p.m., the virus gets stuck in the hour. if you go to someone's house before 8 p.m. or after there's 0 difference. if the person you are going to see has the covid you have a good chance of nabbing it no matter what. worse, the fact that the stores close earlier just means that people have less time to go there and it's more crowded at the same time. ridiculous down the line, the curfew is 100% negative and a measure of misdemeanor.
me and my boyfriend share a car. they are essential and sometimes he leaves for a few days and i keep the car. it's already happened where he returns late to mtl and i have to go look for him like a spy and avoid the police like crazy. or pay $ 50 for an uber and get in touch with a stranger who sees lots of people a day. it's stupid and it makes no sense. adds stress for nothing.
you missed a great opportunity to empathize with your daughter. that sometimes it's not just our navel that counts. that sometimes we have to act for the good of others.
you have to go to legault and tell him "we have a big sire!"
it's a really touching text, thanks for sharing. ❤️
it is not false!
you should write books it's super well written
it was damn fun to read anyway, beautiful style!
i picked up a few weeks ago 35 minutes from my house, 30 minutes before curfew. it's stupid, but i drove dangerously fast because the speed ticket would have been cheaper than the curfew ticket ... good logic that the government is encouraging!
i am currently in ontario and my heart bled when i saw your post. i sympathize with you guys
thank you for this wonderful text.
worse still to the fetishist doomers who would like a curfew at 6 p.m. and * greuh we close everything * awi even the freight jean-francis * greuh yes even the freight we close everything *, the objection to the curfew is everything as much logistical as emotional.
and it owes its existence to more nuanced factors * than the first sinister he said that the variants worse the young and the left it is difficult tatas covidiots it is their fault if we have the curfew *. because it is at least in part a political artifice. and not to recognize this reality is to play the game of the caq to blame the population for sometimes botched public health policies for which individuals are not responsible.
what about staff rotas in chslds? what about managers micro-managers who still continue to force their employees to come face-to-face (and let's be honest, we all know someone in this situation)? what, finally repressive mandates concerning outdoor gatherings, and this damn curfew, which deprives us of the last almost safe place: the outside?
do you really think, deep down, preventing pit from rollerblading with his daddy on a nice spring evening, that's the differentiator, the one who will save us from the umpteenth apocalyptic wave? or it's not rather that we let drag again and again what should not be since april 2020, and that for lack of a better solution than these small percentage slivers, that's what the drivers of the pandemic are. ?
it is one of the bases of human behavior: if you leave reasonable valves, people remain reasonable. if you leave them * nothing *, they will figure out a way to calculate the reasonable risk on their own.
and some will not.
but that does not mean that they do not suffer atrociously, sometimes to the limits of the bearable. worse shit, i've already lost some people. and not covid. that too was preventable, right? i am told no. and i can not calculate * why * these losses there, microphones and macros and temporary and definitive, the myriad of losses accumulated over 13 months, they are less serious than those that the inspq updates every morning, less impactful than the figures that the jdm puts in impact format 72 on its cover.
worse especially, to remember, whether we agree or not: it's not because you live it well, not because it does not affect you, that it makes you someone fundamentally more moral. or that it's not something to be questioned.
it's okay to be for, against, on the fence, obi-wan kenobi. we all have our reasons. the caq would like us to be this monolith, this informative blob a little soft that calls nothing into question but the fact is that this monolith is made up of * millions * of individuals, with dramas ranging from * i don't know what 'we eat * at * i don't know what i'm going to do *.
and the more it goes, the more i don't know what i'm going to do, and damn it, it's eating me. even if tomorrow it will be better ...
[deleted]
fuck this curfew. measure that doesn't make any damn sense.
i always find it suspicious of the posts against the containment measures with stories of children crying ...
it's like the video of the dude crying pcq his son can't play outside
it's still a cute anecdote and i sympathize. but at the same time, children cry and say "it's not fair" when you prevent them from making cellar plans while thinking of their own good, tse.
if everyone had stayed at home properly, all the borders had been closed when the time was right, everything might have returned to a semblance of normalcy.
but no. forget that. too much to ask.
this is the new asteur normal. it is clear that these measures are here to stay. you have to live with it.
"come on, let's go see grandma!"
"but no dad, i go to school every day which is one of the worst places for covid outbreaks, and grandma was told when she received her vaccine to continue to be careful, especially the first few weeks. you have not seen the portion of cases according to age: many are old people who have been vaccinated! "
tear on the cheek. reddit text, that's not fair.
that's why we can't do nice things.
it could be me in a few years, hoping the curfew eventually returns.
wpp: white people problems...
francois legault will congratulate himself when he will have solved the problems of the health system for which it has been 1 year that we are sequestered for 2 weeks.
i was thinking exactly about this meme when i read this.
the next step is to be canonized.
meanwhile the us (global covid capital) has the exact same covid curve than quebec, with much fewer restrictions. in ny today you could go see an nba basketball game, meanwhile we are all still under curfew. this guy is an idiot
i often wonder where we would be in terms of cases and hospitalizations if we had reopened restaurants such as public health offered ...
i don't think we would have a much worse record, honestly.
"during these difficult times of confinement, it is essential to take care of your mental health. anxiety and depression can destroy our self-perception and modulate our reactions. it is normal to feel" at the end of the abyss ", but we must remember the importance of self-compassion, of being kind to ourselves and of congratulating ourselves for having accomplished any task in our day. "
- legault, probably.
il demeure que le message-ci haut est vrai. love yourself, reach out to family and friends, take care of your mental health!!!!
excellent
it's like when we were young, you can finish last, you receive the same medal.
ark. just ark.
bunch of clowns
you sick son of a bitch.
i love this image 1000 times!
even the french girl laughed
selfish conspirators come out in force in the thread
it is true that the pandemic would have been so much better managed with couillard and barette ....
especially since this is his second chance, the first being when he was pq minister of health.
we would have to reinvest in health for that, and we can't! either we should cut subsidies to the businesses of the rich, or we should recover the taxes that the rich do not pay. we can't do that!
give him about the same time it took for any fuck up? i'll still have at least 10 years of life
euuhhhh.
we are in confinement because of covid.
<3
fuck yeah! we put it in a cannon and then we shoot it in a snowbank !!! (with a cauldron on the head)
> to canonize
[deleted]
always sketchy to compare with somewhere else that doesn't have the same culture nor set of covid rules. they dont have a cerb program, getting tested is often expensive and getting covid may possibly bankrupt them.
their environment is vastly different and may or may not cause them to behave differently.
without being a fan of the curfew, this is probably the most effective measure because it is a great deterrent. people respect the wearing of the mask and the washing of hands because it is obligatory to have access to a public place, the two meters is soso. the ban on gatherings was not respected. people do not respect 2 meters and wearing a mask with relatives or friends. it's just really boring that the curfew is the easiest way to get people to stop partying at night.
breh in france curfew is at 18 h. class ends at 17 h + 1h of transport you can’t even go shopping+they let gyms and restaurants/bars diyng.
the us is living a world trade center tragedy on the daily; why should we even think of following their steps??
[deleted]
look at the us covid cases. the curve looks almost exactly the same as quebec since september, and people are actually living their lives...
personally, i don't believe that restaurants are a greater contagion factor than stores, as long as all the people who eat around a table live under the same roof. honestly, in stores where there are salespersons, customers are often glued to the person who serves them. the effectiveness of the paper mask decreases quite a bit when you stand two inches away from another person.
look what has been going on in the orange zones since the restaurants and gyms reopened, you will have your answer.
the key was to allow the reopening, conditional on the application of certain measures that make sense (reduced capacity, bubble table, individual activities only for gyms, etc.).
this is in line with public health recommendations and we are in the process of showing that indeed, under these conditions, these activities have no significant impact on the level of transmission of the virus.
i will not hold my breath to wait for the government to admit that certain things could have been managed otherwise, but until then, i do not see what is expected to extend the measures applied in the orange zone everywhere.
how do you want to take care of your mental health when it is almost impossible to find therapy services?
criticize the fact that the government boasts of not following the instructions of public health = conspiracy!
your not very smart toe eh?
for a year and two months? that period eh?
yeah but the last time he was working with neoliberal ideology where the only concern was to cut costs, reduce inventories, reduce unnecessary capacity and increase efficiency. it's a bit like the texas electric grid, it's not made to be solid in a crisis that happens once a century, it's made to provide the minimum required most of the time.
agreed 100%. i say idiot very loosely. but, yes, he always shows up smiling and arrogantly saying he pulled off some “great success”.....no matter how disastrous the situation has been....ughh
that’s why this picture is so good! lol
i do not share the animosity of some towards legault. however, people keep saying how much better the state would be managed if it were done as private and not by a gang of career politicians. well that's what it gives to manage the state like the private one, the pm will do as it pleases because that's what the presidents of companies do.
of course, if it costs too much to get tested, people won't go, so it's sure that on a graph it will look better, but basically, more people are infected. that, for example, would be a bad interpretation of the data
not sure what you mean. testing in the us is fantastic, cheap and everywhere. yesterday they were testing fans going to nba games in nyc....just going for you know, fun, something that is forbidden in quebec (having fun). friends of mine in california, new york, florida, seattle etc all say testing is fantastic and everywhere. people of all ages getting vaccinated everywhere. this myth that canada has done so much better than the americans is just that, a myth. plus if you factor in the severity and length of our lockdown/curfew, we “should” have been doing much better. cerb has been a good program but people in the us also got lots of money. the media pretends all americans are on the brink of starvation. sometimes i see new mercedes suvs at food bank lines on the news in the us
either way, my point is that we certainly have not done well, and nothing to the point of new zealand where they can gloat. legault congratulating himself is laughable if it wasn’t so sad... 
just my opinion.
but if you look at the us covid curve it’s exactly the same as quebec, without a curfew....if the curfew is the “silver bullet” us cases should be rising still, but they are collapsing also since early january without any travel restrictions there.
anyhow, that curfews are effective is not that point. cutting off your hand to ‘lose weight’ is also effective. my point is that the “celebration tone” legault has is far from the slam dunk “victory” he pretends it to be. that’s all imho
the numbers have gone down even in places where there has not been a curfew for that i do not like this measure.
in montreal my gym has been closed for 12 months, it has not been possible the be inside anywhere with anyone since september and there is also a curfew. if you add the fact that the quebec winter is a million times more brutal than in france, i see nothing than much more terrible there than here. plus many parts of france have warmer climates. anyhow, i’m certainly not saying that quebec is the only place with lockdowns and curfews, what i am saying is that if these are so “effective” it has yet to be explained how the quebec and us curves look the same despite vastly different approaches. it’s quite possible that the lockdown since september did nothing and we have been suffering a lot more than necessary for the same result. in any event there is certainly nothing for mr legault to be so “proud of”. just my opinion
and the curfew penalty is 150 not 1500
let's not forget that 🇫🇷 wanted to ban by law filming cops
not the best example
if you look at the data, and look at deaths per million population, quebec has been a disaster barely any better than us and among the worst in the world, but achieved this “great performance” that legault “congratulates” himself on by instituting one of the harshest lockdowns/curfews on the planet. the results and data speak for themselves. if you adjust for lockdown severity, quebec has been worse than the us. that is, it has achieved nearly equally poor results with much harsher measures on the society. only a fool that reads absolute numbers in the press thinks quebec is some sort of success story smh...
i also think that the opening of the restaurants would have done nothing. i don't know why my comment is downvoted
> they make believe that their measures are used for what whereas that has already been proven by studies in european countries that it is not useful.
do you have a source? this is not to doubt your word, i would just like to see the numbers.
you're right. the us: the #1 worst place in the world for covid mortality; they sure are living their lives eh?
that's what i think too. i don't understand downvotes ...
i'm on reddit so no!
it is from the “cacamou” plate that the mustard is caught.
do you want to come back to chateau frontenac? ;)
the poutines were more fun!
there's the _montreal vanity plate spotting_ group on facebook for those interested
probably all retirees in their luxury rvs and pickup trucks
well yes tsé i asked eh cé koi la joke la la la plates lol
today i saw a tesla with the vegan plate. it was magical
🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
it's boring and not funny
or neckbeards who whine because they were woken up on a weekday at 6:20 am by an amber alert for a girl who was being kidnapped or who are jokes and puns about a poor woman who has been burnt.
all this, sprinkled with a discreet infiltration of progressive antivax
but okay lawl pictures of lawl plates
worse at the shows of grégory charles svp
well yes, yé bô our castle
i vote for cats!
or gregory charles, or the memes of winnie, or the poutines, or the chateau ...
majority
i want to go back to winnie ... does anyone have a "winnie" plate?
`frontenac` does not work (9 characters), but` chateau` is fine.
or well the same of portuguese tartlets.
yes please folks, go post it in there.
ctu a flat license punch?
imagine a gregory 270 ° performing at the castle 360 ° with headbangers on the plains 45 °
yes, ok your point!
cats at château frontenac?
difficult to find a chujet which is more unanimous than a cat!
yes.
good question !
`frntnac`
during a concert by grégory charles ...
by having a poutine to accompany it all ...
[deleted]
i thought it was just a nightmare during my childhood but now i find it real… shit got me fucked up rn
i was wondering where he was at, thank you for the photo.
to those who are wondering the reason for all this.
bah, halak too and huet too are better.
i, for one, welcome our new boat overlord
thugs?!
childhood memory that i try to forget
holiday fartcruise will never get deleted!
i saw him pass in quebec last week, i was wondering what it was ...!
pray or pay.
tuggah!
scp-1522 escaped again
given the context, he should put a mask on it at that tail.
creepy fucker, go back to halifax!
fucking love reddit
this combination of english and french it's too funny i'm lol
is he here again? i am from halifax and would like to see it so much!
theo also had his moments in addition to scoring and not having a lot of goaler ek the mitten on the right, it must fuck the players a little, well thought out the game dmot anyway
unfortunately he is now the overlord of the people of hamilton.
a good memory for me, i wonder if my parents still have the books i had when i was a child.
my parents are from halifax so i agree. we like it.
haha you're downvoted, but admit he's a little creepy anyway
me and my homies, we're all about that frenglish, man.
fuck it reminds me * me and my homies * by dead obies and jpp
it will be in the port of montreal until july 6.
books disturb me less than the show i have to admit, designs don't disturb me that much. it was more the story that terrified me.
i'm from halifax too and agree. we want to keep him.
your username is.
haha, indeed :)
talk for you. (͡ ° ͜ʖ ͡ °)
whether you are sheep, enlightened, defenders of freedom, protectors of health or whatever, happy saint john and let's celebrate our national day together.
happy birthday!
we are also celebrating this among franco-ontarians! happy saint-jean and go habs go tonight!
people of the country!
c not tomorrow ??
bonne saint jean! miss you crazy quebecois! cannot wait for the border to reopen
have a good solstice three days later. may quebec shine.
long live the free quebec.
happy saint-jean to all french canadians everywhere, and happy national day to all quebecers!
calis that jsu magané to morning
thank you! happy st-jean! <3
happy saint-jean-baptiste to all my fellow quebecers! long live the free quebec! one day we will have our country.
marci.
vive le québec and the francophonie! good st-jean!
that’s a shame about working in ontario, but living in quebec is working on st john's day.
it's your turn
it's like christmas! you celebrate the day before, the official day and the next day!
the french north americans itou.
to let you talk about love.
aaaah i didn't know
people of the country
in fact, quebec city radio stations have no interest in reducing congestion. on the contrary, it makes it possible to prolong the listening of a captive audience.
ahhhh! .. that's why we call it traffic jam ...
more road = more traffic = more congestion
in fact, to have less traffic, the alternatives must be made viable and more attractive
ideas ? transform streets into pedestrian streets, remove traffic lanes or parking lots for bicycle traffic, create separate lanes for public transport and closed to cars, prioritize pedestrians and bicycles with lights ... these are all ideas which have worked in several locations around the world to reduce congestion
we can you have a fucking subway to remove tanks on the road.
yes it's long to do
yes it's fucking expensive
but you don't buy a $ 2 frying pan at dollorama every year, you get one at $ 30 at canadian tire and your change every 15 years .... same principle
wouldn't that rather be 2 highways with less traffic to 2 city centers? it is used to divide the traffic and make a loop in the city, your drawing is a 3rd link to the west with the other bridges.
personally, i would have preferred to just extend the île d'orléans bridge to the other side so that it costs less, but hey, the principle remains the same.
what i have never understood is why we do not build freeways to bypass cities instead of passing through them. we want to reduce the circulation of vehicles that have no business in the city.
what is caquiste?
i'm just a poor frenchman who tries to understand
gang of hams. can we have a metro that leaves from rdp and pointo? it would solve a lot of problems
she's right. this is why we must not bring more highways to the city center, must connect the highways together.
we can't do something new with old !!!
we will have to build a modern city table
shaves like in dubai between quebec and mtl and buildings so high that during the night ... we will see these 2 shitty cities illuminated thanks to the cars stuck in the traffic
i can not wait. i will be able to move to the south shore. so tired of paying municipal taxes for the upper town's navel.
ah, more qs propaganda on this sub. because tse, it lacked. / s
the urban planning and road design here are ridiculous. strategically placed roundabouts would fix a lot of your road issues but north americans don’t know how to use them. if the provincial government put as much effort into designing roads as telling us not to say, “bonjour hi” to score cheap language points from low hanging fruit single issue voters then the situation might be better
that's quite an intellectual shortcut that ...
like the radio bin of quebec.
??? what?
we're not talking about expanding the highways. we are talking about the fact that the quebec bridge is about to fall. and you have to cross the damn river.
sometimes i want to dynamite all the bridges and the tunnel in montreal like bane when i hear estis of montrealers acting as if it was possible to cross the river by bike.
it takes a 3rd link (soon 2nd link when the pont de québec is scrap)
okay, another one who doesn't know the difference between a bridge and a highway.
captive..
if you saw how quickly i change my post when i hear something other than news or a song ... even in their weather report or news, they are able to put an ad esti .. for real, i went to listen to an am station that i found without advertising.
> prolong listening to a captive audience.
i am going from a reflection on the garbage radios of quebec. i really have the impression that they are actually not very good. when you compare to what is done elsewhere like talk radio, the quality of choi 98.1, fm93.3 and some hosts of 98.9, we are forced to note that it is still poor quality.
without judging the quality in itself of the radio trash, but only by comparing what is done in quebec compared to what is available elsewhere, in english in the us for example, we must recognize that they are still pockets. there are podcasts in english that are significantly better and the audience might like more.
but as you say, the audience is captive. not only captive in their tank, ** but captive in a french-speaking cultural market **. when i look at my friends, the only ones who listen to choi are those who are not bilingual: d let's be frank, they work well in quebec, beauce, mauricie and saguenay because of the english language barrier.
the audience is also captive because there are only 2-4 radio stations spoken in quebec. it's all the same and the fact that the hosts move from station to station over the years is proof of that. what about an ultra-regulated market in which frequencies are granted by the government and where there are only 2 to 4 players? we are far from the free market in the restaurant industry where 50% of restaurants close after less than 2 years. rather, it is ** an economic cartel situation in which the audience is captive **.
and after the trash radio hosts shit on the french language and are the apostles of the free market ...
for the benefit of their customers: dealerships and auto insurance companies that pay radios for advertising space.
that's an affirmation for monday!
🤯
you just changed my life.
bottleneck in english ...
yes because the bottleneck limits the flow, entering or leaving
but, but, the direction of traffic comes out of the bottle. if it's not a bottle but a funnel, i can't see the bottle that we "bottled"?
you have to see the perfectly hysterical reaction of some when montreal does that.
we have the impression that it is a genocide that is organized.
although these ideas are not bad, they do not correspond exactly to the situation in the city. pedestrian crossings and bicycle traffic can only serve a "local" population. in addition, compared to several places around the world that have taken these alternatives, quebec has winters with a lot of precipitation, which cuts off bike trips 4 months a year and limits walking distances.
i would prefer a developed public transport system. i really like the rtc honestly, but it could be improved and more attractive, because you may have the most developed transport network in the world, you have to attract users. very few people will give up the car for the bus, especially with the strong urban sprawl that quebec has been experiencing since the early 2000s.
i want to add that these alternatives alone will not reduce congestion in the long run. a city like quebec, which is an important cultural, political and economic center, must have an adequate road system. our current roads can meet an agglomeration of about 650,000 people while we exceed 850,000.
i always liked this video and the explanation
it's fun there, converting streets into pedestrian streets etc, but that's just no link (lol)
to pass public transport between the two banks it takes a structure that goes from one side of the river to the other. what we have at the moment it doesn't matter, it's literally going around the city to cross the river.
and are no other options to convert roads or i dont know, there is just a bridge and it is on the other end of town.
i am not sold on what is offered, i will certainly not be a regular user. but i still find it crazy to be able to do parc st-roch in levis by bus in 5 minutes. it is sure that it will develop both sides.
in fact if i had to choose i would say build a metro, that would be really cool. or well redo all the schools in the province, that would be cool too (i imagine with 10mm, it is possible to redo a couple)
> more road = more traffic = more congestion
loll.
more swiss cheese = more holes = less swiss cheese?
did you read a radio canada article by any chance?
especially never buy a pan not special at canadian tire.
with the 10,000 million that they want us to waste in this, we could have a nice metro for our capital and that would please me because, unlike underwater parking, it would be a real investment in the city and the region.
the city of lyon has the same pop and they have their metro. not unthinkable, but it might start very small
or buy one at 115 worse never change 8-)
> you get one at $ 30 at canadian tire and your change every 15 years
here is my proposal: buy a quality cast iron skillet and keep it for life.
/r/castiron 
/r/buyitforlife
2 city centers? yes and no. it is true that quebec has several employment centers (ste-foy, parliament hill, saint-roch for example). but precisely, these job centers will not be moved by the 3rd link. the congestion in these areas (which is undeniable at peak times) could worsen if we facilitate access by car, which will certainly happen if we facilitate urban sprawl.
the diagram represents the regional motorway capacity vs the local capacity (the capacity of an urban environment to accept the automobile depends on road safety, quality of life, road capacity, parking, environment, etc.). it should not be taken as a geometric representation of an infrastructure. in this specific case, if neither of the two city centers increases its reception capacity, it remains the same problem.
you talk to sores here. of course in reality the goal is to make a belt around the city, they don't have the intellectual capacity to understand anything other than a cycle path here.
100% agree that a double bridge on île d'orléans would be much better.
when i lived in austin in 2014, i went to houston several times on vacation. they have a donut-shaped highway that goes around town.
so if you have to get to the ends of town, you don't even have to go downtown.
ah, it's 5 way too. a real charm.
sometimes i wonder if it is possible to finish the 640, so that it crosses the ottawa river and finish on the 40. as a result, the 640 becomes a real bypass road and will hopefully free up the heavy traffic that must cross montreal by the metropolitan to get to quebec. obviously that would require some big expensive improvements, like widening the entire highway to 3 lanes on each side and redoing the stupid 40/640 interchange in repentigny.
you need at least links across the river to do this and that's why the initial project was a bridge or tunnel east of the city ... to complete the region. but a bridge in the corner of ile d'orléan would also have made the left qs shout, it's even less green ....
caq: coalition avenir québec. it is the party in power with a fairly center-right orientation.
caq = political party currently in power.
the eastern rem is under study, isn't it?
you suffer from acute montrealitis.
why not move further to the north shore instead of the south shore? it would solve your tax problem if you are not in quebec, right?
does that trigger you?
a roundabout takes up more space than a normal intersection. so it is more difficult to replace intersections with roundabouts without too much demolishing / expropriating (of course there must be intersections that it is perfectly feasible).
but some new roads now have roundabouts, it is easier to integrate into a new road network.
and what is the relationship between language and urban planning?
not sure i understand the connection with "hello hi", but otherwise i agree with what you are saying. we have to take inspiration from what works elsewhere and adapt it to our reality.
i was with you until you tried to score cheap points with your silliness on your tongue.
it's like the world who * discovered * natural areas in the region and who imagine that there are employees who come to pick up their debris every day as in their big cities.
i spent a day doing it, on my arm, several big bags of garbage for a little stretch of the river, and three weeks later it was back to the same state. at any given moment it becomes so muddy with cardboard, plastic, styrofoam and broken glass that beavers, marmots, ducks, etc. show up with their young.
on the other hand, i am sure that a certain percentage of the debris was generated by * locals * for whom the pku represented a substantial increase in their income. the proof that giving more money to bs does not make less bs. i even ran into one who bragged about collecting both.
i will have put a pack of ld or quebec classic instead of export a. esti that they are made expensive.
phew, i feel you so much. since closing i stop at my fishing spots when i go out for a walk. i see lots of people fishing. worse, it's not for dabbling.
i can't wait for it to open!
we have the same in france.
"hey maudit gauchiste you tell me not to do you do not take my libarty k there?"
sacrament this sub makes me proud to be quebecer!
yeah people leave, heavy, i had to pick up the same.
damn i caught a (big) largemouth bass in late july ... would i have been supposed to release it?
i do not know myself in chachepêshe but it is a good reminder to do! i more so to increase the distribution!
i am organizing a cleaning of the banks of the river next saturday, worse tabarnak that you are right on the first two images.
export "a" plain ... that brings me back to 82 that ... the package must be under the left sleeve.
knowing nothing about fishing: does that mean you have to abstain entirely?
i imagine that the type of bait can influence what will bite, but ... let's say i fish with a glass of dirt (hypothetically speaking, i really don't think i will go fishing).
i don't know anything about it. what's wrong with the top right image and the bottom left image?
> [ok op i listened to you] ( % e2% 80% 98argenteuil-4327 /)
- the perch fisherman, probably.
at the moment i just fish for carp or bullhead while waiting for the 24th for the opening of the pike
has a small mouth in the rrrrrrroseau
[
serious question: are there fishing clubs that we can join to learn from the world who know that?
the internets, the books or the specialist sellers are good, but it's not like spending a weekend with a man who has been fishing for 40 years.
we like to fish, but we have no good.
ait
they should not sell fishing accessories without having proof / showing a license
will you * please * leave the fish alone? [it's scientifically proven that fish feel pain.] ( do you find yourself a "sport" that doesn't kill anyone please
being bs is a state of mind that has nothing to do with the financial state.
just a word of advice when you do this: leave the bags of garbage straight in the path on the road to the lake. maybe not 100% effective as a practicality, but at least it sends a message.
exactly, the urban exodus that we observe with the covid brings similar consequences to these. pcu side, i agree with you halfway. i agree to support those in need or being less fortunate / privileged in difficult times. but i don't think throwing everyone's money away is the federal government's best idea.
can you educate me please, what is a bs?
it's a shame, your comment was relevant until your prejudice on social assistance.
i'm not a great connoisseur when it comes to cigarettes haha
how much is a pack of 25? even when i was a smoker it was $ 7
thank you for your compassion !!
maybe even "to the power of ten" ...
your life won't get better, boy. do us all a favor 😊
bass fishing starts in mid-june you had to be correct. if you have any questions, consult the ministry's website:  by selecting your location you have all the regulations in your sector depending on the species you are targeting or that you can accidentally take.
go fishing without knowing the rules of the area ....
isn't it bad for the fish to release it after it bites straight into a metal pick?
the bait and above all the place. you worm fish, you can catch a lot of kinds of fish. the idea is that if you release 2 bass back to back, switch spots. it is a spawning ground.
basically, at the top, the reel is misused, a sign that the person does not know what he is doing. at the bottom, it is a bass with the mention "may". bass enter the breeding season in may. it is closed, forbidden to take it. it protects its nest from everything and will attack anything that passes nearby, which makes it extremely easy to catch "by accident" during spawning periods. and moving her from her nest can have serious consequences on her litter.
this is exactly the mentality that must be adopted!
as a pandemic, clubs have not had it easy. i don't know if there are any operational.
calm down lol.
you already buy the license from the canadian pulling at the same time as your cheap fishing rod ...
on the other hand, it would be interesting to promote the transfer of knowledge. not everyone who has an uncle or a father who knows the sport or who has the time or the taste to show it to you. for beginners, are we going to go or to learn and gain experience that has allure?
i think the "myth" that fish don't feel pain has stuck with the boomer / x generation. i don't think anyone past that age still thinks fish are insensitive, that's ridiculous.
on the other hand, it would be silly to compare their level of pain tolerance to ours. difficult to prove i agree, but when we compare ourselves to other animals, we quickly realize that we are not very tolerant. just watching two dogs playing together, it often plays very rough and they have fun. fish have a much higher tolerance threshold. in addition, most predators have the jawbone often composed in part of cartilage, an essential evolutionary trait when the base of your food is covered with thorns. we then think of certain minnows, perch, bullheads and even walleye which are often eaten by larger predators such as pike, muskellunge, or even bass and which have rather intimidating defense mechanisms. sharp thorn along the body, anti-coagulant and so on. the mouths of predators are certainly not insensitive, but are certainly much less sensitive than ours. otherwise, each meal of yellow perch would be a torture for their palate!
then, we must understand that man, as a species, to survive and evolve quickly had to start hunting and fishing, and this long before agriculture. we are talking about more than a hundred thousand years of evolution. hunting and fishing are among our most primitive instincs.
our modern society often prevents us from living our instincts. it is understandable for a civilized life in society. but i believe that at times, man needs to deny with his instincts in one way or another. hunting, fishing, camping, helps a little to fill this instinctive need. we already live in a sanitized society, we have rules of conduct, rules of good manners which are mostly respected, but man is an animal, and constantly pushing back his instinctive needs can have serious consequences on the mind.
to prevent hunting and fishing, when the grocery stores are filled with meat from the butcher's shop, it is ultra hypocritical. certainly, we have a better collective conscience and more and more people are concerned about the well-being of animals and the planet. many are capable of converting to vegetarianism and it's wonderful. on the other hand, the person who comes to see me to tell me that fishing is bad, is really better not to consume any meat and any derivative products such as milk and eggs. otherwise, that person is hypocritical and their argument invalid.
so yes, fishing can be seen as cruel and i can hardly argue. we hurt fish for our pleasure. on the other hand, most fishermen are aware of and actively participate in the preservation of flora and fauna. fishing also helps many scientists to collect important data and advance science. not to mention that many fishermen are actively working to preserve species by reporting fish reproduction sanctuaries to government agencies so that they can prohibit access during spawning periods.
fishing is part of man, it has allowed him to develop and survive. instinctively we need to hunt and fish, and there is a way to do it responsibly and respectfully.
hunting, stu correct?
that. bs have a wide back. not everyone on social assistance who pulls joints in the dark or who are sitting on their wildcat fund from 8 to 8. there are single-parent mothers with several children who with a minimum wage would not be able to join the 2 ends, who have a lot more ability to live than people who work 40h / week (that's just an example, we agree that we have several situations where social assistance is your only way out to not be in the street, and there are all kinds of people in our beautiful quebec ecosystem).
but in short, as you said, the expression bs means a lot more a way of life than a financial statement.
yes n. finally i wonder if my intervention was relevant haha
stupid classist prejudice. there are plenty of middle class with their big pickups that do a lot more damage than the bs.
what's more ... given the much more restrictive policies of the caq, bs is an endangered species. while the commuter rednecks, they ...
once there, it's useless, the animals will open the bags to get to the takeout containers.
here is my friend: 
social well-being. it refers to the financial assistance given to those who need it. more broadly (as here) it means a caricature, "i eat fast food and i drink super cheap beer throwing my rubbish everywhere, i wear a tracksuit, i have unwanted children right to left" etc.
it feels strange to write it the same way, it seems to me that it is violent, if there is anyone who sees it differently, do not hesitate to correct me.
> prejudice
> judgment on someone, something, which is formed in advance
dude i've been living here for ten years, i can assure you that my opinion formed * bein * after the fact.
14 at my dep, at mtl it must be 16
i do not follow you.
it makes me want to leave. $ 1000 discount on my trip.
looking forward to the next election. i've always been anything but conservative but it might be anything but liberal this time around. we don't care about our face.
criss, are you done giving ammunition to idiots who don't believe in covid?
well, i was tired of being a pigeon. are you too late to buy me a ticket? le condo d'arcand do you have an enemy room?
it's still ridiculous as a priority for resource allocation. who thought it was a good idea to subsidize this, in the current context ?!
[deleted]
i would like to add a line to this card: in return, you must receive a slap in the face of each of the other players. i think that would add more value to the game. anyway, we know that a real game of monpoly always ends in a bloodbath.
what a stupid government!
worse the other [lagacé with its harm reductions] ( ...
hey thing, being a drug addict is not quite as enviable as spending 2 weeks in the south at christmas .... lol
the inability to control oneself while traveling is not a disease our health care system should treat like drug addiction. if taxpayers have to spend money to manage the risks these idiots are making us all take, at least let's not give them a paid vacation! let's do everything to make life difficult for them (mandatory quarantine monitored), so at least the money spent on these selfish people does not go straight into their pocket as a vacation budget.
in fact: go on a trip and on your return we pay you a fortnight in a * resort * in cagnada on top of that.
it is not a luck card, it is a "common fund" card
they should give someone $ 1000 to monitor their quarantine instead ...
ironic whereas in normal times, regular unemployment is cut if you leave the country ... and this even for seasonal workers.
now you have to find a package that costs $ 999!
they call it taxing the rich: it's current money ...
[deleted]
there is no way to get paid to travel there
there are all-inclusives that cost less than that, at that point you make a profit.
yes but you lose two weeks of pay ... not so much paying in the end
* $ 1000 taxable
this is not how it works lol. in fact it's 14 days of unemployment quarantine .. otherwise you could have worked 2 weeks at your job. these people are taxed and taxed at the end of the year (they are entitled to it)
majority block!
[deleted]
yeah except the conservatives are more and more like republicans. they say anything. pierre poilievre says business is completely out of touch with reality, like trump refusing to believe he lost his election. personally, i could never support people who will do anything to keep or have power.
> i have always been anything but conservative but it might be anything but liberal this time around. we don't care about our face.
liberal supporters kid me with their "would you prefer the tories?" ". what a bogus dilleme that betrays their belief that the lpc is not going to get better.
this party needs a big float.
if only there were two rounds in the election ... unfortunately, voting anything other than liberal only strengthens the conservative party which will put us in much more shit as usual. :(
the case is that it is a loophole to a measure put in place 4 months ago. it's not like they've just decided to give money to the cave travelers. now what are they going to do to avoid the loophole? one can only hope (i'm naive, i know)
the article that started the whole story had a somewhat vague title. the measure is that if someone has to quarantine themselves (in contact with an infected person, awaiting a test result, or travel) and cannot work, they receive assistance equivalent to pku so as not to that they have to choose between working and risking the health of the world or not working. if the world can work during quarantine, telework kind, that does not apply. this is just a loophole which was not the objective and la presse exposed / popularized it. but the liberals did not wake up this morning and add a $ 1,000 measure to travelers. it's been around since like july.
right, pi is spinning ultra dishonestly pi everyone bites
tbk, ta the world's screeching more in need of that $ 1k a. the person voluntarily deciding to screech are camps on vacation during a pandemic and they knew they were going to be forced into quarantine, so take responsibility and your own choice of going on a trip knowing you were going to waste 2 weeks of work. you're not entitled to that $ 1k a.
unfortunately, it goes against health measures.
and have a loss of income. just those who haven't read the article figured it out it looks like.
it is not a free bonus.
no, you have to show a loss of income caused by the quarantine. it is a loophole to an aid measure already in place, it is not made to really help people who have left for travel.
[moments with big brains] (
not really because you have to lose income to be eligible. if you make less than $ 500 a week you can do more but that won't pay off much for the trip.
not if you telework
* tapoche sa tempe *
1 week in the south + two weeks of paid vacation, even if it's cheaper than you usually earn it's still not worse, they didn't even give that with the pku.
i am seriously thinking about it.
the way the counties are arranged the bloc could theoretically be fluuuush in the minority if it is 100% in quebec and the other three are perfectly split.
we refer junior to his blackface, disguises and touches
they didn't decide to come to the aid of the travelers, they decided that their help for people who are losing income because of the covid and the need to get in, and they decided that it applies to all those who are in quarantine without asking them why.
honestly, the bloc seems to me a very reasonable option. i'm not a sovereignist at all, but i love yfb.
chu bored with these stories of wasting his vote.
if all the federal parties were able to win the love of quebec and we all voted bloc, that would be far from being a lost vote. that would force the parties to change a little more to please quebec. the conservatives still seem to me to be pockets this time around (trudeau bad !, that hasn't changed much) but we still see that o'toole is trying to woo us.
then it shows on the scale of each county. then even if it was because of you that the conservatives went for 4 years because your story and your vote for the bloc was the one that decided the result of all the elections, you still did not waste your vote, because that you would encourage the liberals to do a little more to win your county next time.
no, of course i will never vote conservative, but i will never be able to give the liberals my vote again in good conscience.
the ccp is absolutely disgusting in every way.
[deleted]
i don't think so because they want people to do their quarantines. eliminating loophole would lead to some people not doing it, which is risky.
a reference to russianbadger ?!
obviously, it was for the joke.
hmm ... unemployment is income.
i took a trip to the czech republic a few years ago and, to my surprise, all the cashiers were seated in the supermarkets. no reason for it is not the same here.
to make your rich boss who exploits you feel like you deserve your minimum wage.
it doesn't look professional!
customers get bored, it's the bosses who don't like it because "if you have time to sit down, you have time to do this or that" or something like that.
in some asian grocery stores i see seated cashiers and everyone is fond of them.
it just bothers those who take pleasure in seeing others suffer for their bondage!
totally agree with you.
we are launching a movement
"it's not good to trade that the caisers are sitting."
they are all sitting in france.
no that doesn't bother me, it would even be necessary that the checkouts be made according to that.
it should be illegal to have a crate without a seat or stool to sit on.
i managed to outlive all the seated cashiers i saw in italy, dmnq
at minimum wage, minimum effort.
really toxic as a cultural norm.
well, okay. in addition, after a few years, cashiers can develop health problems that are quite damaging to the legs and feet.
the other day, i went to buy groceries and when it was time to pay, i realized that my self-service checkout was sitting on a bench. at first it didn't bother me that much but when she started having me scan my items himself and look up the code for the bananas, i thought it was a complete lack of class on her part.
for real, if we could start a trend on it that could get the world to think about it for good ... just now you have 20 answers and 100% approval lol
i don't mind whether they're sitting down. but i imagine their bosses would rather watch them suffer to remind them that they are their inferiors.
boomer argument: you work less hard / well when you are seated.
it struck me when i visited paris the cashiers were seated!
me as long as it suits the person doing the job i have nothing to say!
when i was a cashier, i messed around with my boss during a team meeting because he wanted to remove the chairs behind the cash registers. he finally left the chairs since he would have lost 2-3 cashier otherwise ... we had mm no break on an 8h shift and he never wanted us to sit lol on the other hand he had his beautiful chair in his office ...
> does it really bother someone to see cashiers sitting down?
yes really. it bothers morons who are afraid that others are not working hard enough and change.
the real question is "why are we letting them decide?" ". we just have to make the change and they'll get used to it. i have the impression that it is inevitable, with full employment it is harder and harder to attract people with poor conditions.
it doesn't bother me at all.
it reminds me of when i went to paris with my mother in 2019. we stopped in a monoprix and when she saw that the cashiers had a stool at their checkouts, she just couldn't believe it. she wondered why we didn't have that here in quebec.
that wouldn't bother, but personally i've been a cashier / supervisor in a grocery store for over 5 years and you get used to being on your feet for several hours quite quickly.
that being said, it would be really fun to be able to sit between clients, it doesn't seem like a very demanding job physically and it breaks my heart to see my older colleagues telling me that they are in pain everywhere.
it's like a former boss who didn't want me to sit. i just had to load and unload and wait 10 minutes for the robot to weld. he even came to lower the sound of the radios while crying "it's not in a nightclub here"
i have already worked in events for a large group mainly hiring young people as surveillance agents / reception agents or others. we had to be on the picket line for the long day, standing in a corner to observe. i quit when they put me in the basement to make sure no one was going through the fire escape. i swear to you: there was no one there. no clients, no colleagues. and i was not allowed a chair. unbelievable. they really just wanna have the power to scrape our backs. the same goes for the cashiers ...
they're sitting in saudi arabia, that says a lot!
i have never seen anyone complain. at the same time, they see that i am using a box for a seat and a stool for a table, when i am supping directly behind the cash register. i think they're a little embarrassed to comment.
bosses are just reluctant to let a girl with a healing wound have a stool ... whatever to me. north american mentality. even the cnesst should give an opinion on that given. it is really damaging to stand without walking during a whole shift.
i was surprised the first time i saw that cashiers must be standing in quebec, i was in several countries and this is the first time i see that
in europe, almost all of them are seated, and it works very well.
some kind of backward view of the north american work mentality i guess.
when i was working as a clerk, i found it so painful to stay up all day, i had full back pain and legs at the end of the day (i have scoliosis). it is true that it is toxic and unnecessary as a cultural norm. that really needs to change!
my 65-year-old mother would go back to work (according to her 20 hours maximum per week) at the cash desk if it wasn't for standing. she loves to smile and see people.
it is a question of culture. not that i defend it, but in north america we are very much in the culture of performance, of working hard yada yada. it's supposed to "look professional, seasoned and hardworking."
if you travel to europe, you will see that a lot of the cashiers are seated. they just have less of this performance culture than we do, and it can also be seen, for example, by the fact that they are + in favor of 4-day working weeks
especially with the united states right next to us and the influence they have on our society (whether we admit it or not), that is not likely to change anytime soon.
the worst thing is not to stay up all day, but to stay on the spot! really a torture for the legs. it's really cave and sadistic not to at least give the cashiers stools.
a little lady who was giving a cashier pc that she had the odious to print the receipt .. she could have saved paper and saved the planet. once out, the good woman is in her big suv and waltzes out of her parking lot. i walk past her and she makes a sudden movement… i honk at her like rotten fish. in honor of the young cashier.
i just saw one hair salon in montreal that had special chairs that allow hairdressers to work seated. their stool sort of orbited the client's chair. it was in the 90s at coupe bizarre, which was a marginal place at that time.
bosses hate to see someone sitting down, even when it makes sense and it doesn't change the work they're doing. it has nothing to do with logic and everything to do with the superiority complex.
i never understood that either. it's one thing when you're on the move to be on your feet all day. it is another when you are on the spot. your weight stays in one place all the time, which increases the risk of long-term injury. your heart has a hard time pumping like people when you are not moving, causing blood to stagnate in the legs below the ankles. it should be downright illegal because it causes long term health problems.
edit: that said i wouldn't want to sit for 8 hours either.
i blame the csst. they would have the power to impose its on all companies. sure it's not the biggest health risk but its touch to tell a lot of people it's ridiculous that an organization that spends its time fucking flies screeching nothing about it. it is sure that working standing in place is not the most dangerous or harmful thing but it touches so many people, the effect would be considerable overall.
the practical aspects are secondary. the main concern here is hierarchical. it is important that the employees at the bottom of the ladder have reduced comfort, so that it allows "small management" to be given the badge of privilege to sit, for example when they are in their office.
the less you give at the bottom, the more you can take away from those just above. if the cashiers could sit down, pounding them on would have been so much a privilege. we would have to give more to the rest of the corporate pyramid, and then the shareholders would make hundreds of millions instead of billions! it would be the end of society!
...
uh ... i think she kinda escaped me that one. but i think the answer is somewhere in there.
i worked 1 month in a subway and i have chronic back problems, so standing for 7:30 am hurt my back so much that i had to squat to take a little pressure off when there was no customer. are you not professional enough, an employee in so much pain that she squats on the floor crying lol
the cashiers of the cafeteria of the uqam are seated the only time i have seen this in quebec
everyone does it except those who have never worked in customer service.
i literally couldn't give less if a shit if i could. give those employees a chair.
tokébecicitte
honestly, i never thought about it. but i would like to squeal better if my cashier was comfortable and if he needs a chair, he goes.
it changes nothing in my life and maybe will improve his.
because the generous creators of low-wage jobs are living gods, it is normal that their employees sacrifice their well-being on the altar of their generosity.
yet it is well known, isn't it?
fuck their legs, it saves me cash in the short term, even if i have to hire new employees every 3 months / s
at the archambault, we would cry if we sat down for 2 minutes.
don't shop at archambault, gang. they are really big mange-marde.
the comedians who stay in front of your house with their shit music while looking at their phones, beautiful.
bonus points for hams that do the same on a motorcycle.
there's an art installation that plays the same song on repeat close to where i live, and it's supposed to continue until the end of the month. when i open my windows at all i hear it play. the toune is really bad besides, it's torture. / rant
100%. i do not know if it is because of the coming summer or the end of the curfew but i have the impression that it is time here there are more than before of the morons in tank
i thought they were all in my street in longueuil circling near chemin chambly.
osti that i am with you for this rant !!!!!
at 18 i was like that. "wow people will find me too hot". now i find it fucking pathetic haha
no one thinks that other people have fun, it is purely selfish behavior.
i don't quite understand why there are so many people who feel free to impose their vibe on everyone. you walk down the street and feel important enough to stress 300 people with your altered exaust that makes too much noise. and why are we defending this?
a few years ago, our neighbor had a snow removal contract with a young person who came to shovel his driveway at night or very early in the morning. the young person in question stopped his chariot on the edge of the street, he turned up the sound and lowered his windows to be able to hear his music by shoveling, which obviously woke everyone up.
the problem with society is that we have ended up with too many cave people. there are people who just can't understand common sense.
if i blast the téléjournal, are you correct?
since working in psychiatry, i have noticed that a lot of patients who hear voices listen to very loud music. since that time, i have doubts every time i see someone with headphones and music so loud that i can understand the lyrics.
there is a direct correlation between the volume of music in a tank and the quality of the musical artist. the stronger it is, the flatter it is.
proof: i never hear blasted hall & oates fucking loud in a passing tank.
i sympathize. i have a cellar gang across the street that had two rooftop parties in four days. music so loud that even inside my apartment, it is louder than the one i play. friday, we were treated to the outdoor disco until 2am.
i might get "get off my lawn" with age, but i'm pretty sure in the not-so-distant past we were less at the mercy of other people's decibels. i love music, but everywhere, all the time, at full volume, it's really overkill.
i don't mind ... but how else are people going to know that i need attention ??? or that i have a feeling of inferiority ?? seriously think of me in there .. / s
the classic keveuun in his modified civic or subaru which comes to disgust the people with his pocket-sized music that we did not ask for.
really tiring. i don't know if they really think this impresses anyone. from me anyway it's always a rolling eyes and a big sigh of exasperation. i like to listen to my medium-loud music, but criss, only on the freeway where no one is around. i don't want to disturb the world if i'm in town, i turn down the sound in the streets and turn it down even more with red lights: ')
there was a very similar post 2 days ago: [ marge( : //www.reddit.com/r/quebec/comments/odz40e/why_are_cars_so_noisy_in_quebec/)
personally i love to listen to music in my tank, but i am careful not to put it too loud and as soon as i do, i make sure my windows are closed. worse anyway, i've got plenty of guilty pleasure in my playlist, i'd be too embarrassed for people to see me listening to those tunes anyway haha.
in terms of modified exhausts, i'm not sure what to think. i've always been a tank fan and have always loved the sounds of cars, but that said, i don't like hearing tanks go by when i'm in my apartment and it's even worse when it's late the evening.
i talked about it a bit in the reddit post i linked at the beginning of my comment, but the ideal in my opinion would be that everyone would have exhausts with active valves that reduce the sound with the click with a button. my car has this and it's great. it allows me to enjoy the sound of my car while having the possibility of reducing the noise when i consider that i might disturb too many people. for example, i'm always at the quietest in a residential neighborhood or after 9 p.m. it's really ideal for people who love tanks but have a conscience.
but hey, maybe i'm also excessive in my obsession with trying not to disturb people. i just moved to a semi-basement because i kept myself from living trying not to make too much noise for my downstairs neighbor when i was in a second floor.
amen!
especially the boomer motorcycle squeals
also the speakers in the parks, that's no.
one day i got tired of the noise, i moved into the countryside. there i have peace :)
90% of the time i hear a key in the background in a rap tank or music that i would never listen to.
you are going to listen to my dragon warrior 3 music on the nes against your will it's summer i hot.
special mention to these people there also in the metro or the bus
i live on st-laurent, and apparently it's extremely cool to make people lose their hearing when approaching a red light
i would really like that the noise of cars and motorcycles above a certain decibel are prohibited. i live near a very busy street and it's difficult to have a little peace in the evening and on weekends. if the government of quebec has the political will to vaccinate 100,000 people per day, they could have it to banish such noises which must certainly cause a lot of distress in birds and small animals (in addition to hypersensitive people like me lol)
i went to the beach last week. a lake in a very peaceful national park. there was a moron with portable speakers who blasted his bad music. you have to be an innocent asti to do that.
if you want to stay in the city, you have to accept living with all these special beautiful people, more busy streets and close to your home. always going to have tanks roaring, music in the carpet, people screaming at 3am, that's what living in the city is all about. there are positive sides to living in the city, but living in the city also means tolerating everything else, not everyone too!
death to tank culture!
weedeaters osties on 4 wheels
one of my pet peeves. no one wants to hear your shitty music. shut up - even shut up your existence
they just want attention. obviously that works their tactic.
is there another way to listen to metal?
val-bélair, qc is a settler's nest like that
edit: not *
i am in saint-jerome i understand. settlers speed residential streets all day and night. and they like to make noise
like what, it seems everywhere the same
my boyfriend and me, we rented a chalet 2 months ago and those who had the one opposite were listening to big reggaetowm at the top of their lungs.
and worse at one point, they did play "the phone pleure" by claude françois. i laughed so much.
my boyfriend was troubled that i knew her by heart though.
my chariot, my music!
in fact the comments are mostly angry people that the music is different from before because there is more commentary on "young music" than on loud music in general. i conclude that it means: "if your music does not correspond to my personal tastes, keep it to yourself". living in the city is not just having the wal mart at hand, it is also enduring what is happening there. lots of people, lots of different people.
i moved to a boulevard and music + the loud noise of motorcycles is my daily life. i am still surprised at the lack of knowing how to live each time keven goes civic straight pipe at 2am with his big mumble rap.
i would never understand that dopamine boost felt by little counsels that make an engine rumble.
>ontario
....
> my children
:/
you should keep your windows closed during the day in a heatwave anyway and then open them at night when it is cooler.
not that it excuses people who blast their music, but you already have your solution to your problem.
you should really invest in air conditioning if you can afford it.
you are so right! i am part of the problem! i love my super loud music, at home i use headphones but in the truck (when i go to work) the sound is in the carpet and i apologize i will think of you !!!! but i don't have a subaru at least
... they probably put their music this loud to bury your screaming kids? 🙃
i'm trying to translate this behavior is: misinterpreted peer pressure.
yeah, i get it and other stuff. some people don't think or make mistakes, but some people don't give a shit about other people. accept it, believe it, be prepared, don't let it make you a cynic. but yeah it sucks. alcohol makes it worse.
but you can't hate the elder scrolls v: skyrim soundtrack in the carpet it's impossible!
on ontario? what are you talking about?
i just saw [this post] ( and it's very appropriate hahaha!
urrrgh .... it reminds me of city life. how do you manage to live there ?!
pt it will turn it on even more 👀
you sound like a guy who wants to talk to me about open source software.
a little fuck like this.
the girl who had my number before ... let's say she got fucked all over the place, i'm still texting from the fuckboys she screwed after 2 years.
worse calls from lots of schools that want mom to pay her children's school taxes. ah i also got a call from her enraged stepmother threatening to sue her because she was a drug addict.
ben du drama.
quickly like that, i would say it's the right number!
i only receive calls from american prisons to warn me that this or that dude is going to be released. worse each time i have a little pain for the person who should receive this call ... the joy of having a new number!
i've been receiving calls for a former banker in montreal for over a year. some light up pretty fast, others leave me messages filled with info (like financial statements or ongoing fundraising calls) assuming they're talking to the right person. i also received calls in the middle of the night from the security company to tell me that the alarm was triggered at the bank.
pe that it is not a mistake contrary to what your fiancée tells you ...
in 3 months send him a text reminding him to check his smoke detector.
so is your fiancé very beautiful, lucky goes.
ok, but can i go listen to black sabbath with you? i can bring good beer and my sabotage vinyl…
it's really good, the mask; no need to shave, and it doesn't show when you yawn during meetings ...
nice beard man
i have read all the reviews so far and would just like to say to some of you: you have a busy life with your numbers!
you should sell them if you have enough, of course there are people like me who have such boring lives that they would love to get calls at 4am to take powder orders 😊
spotted cool dad
beautiful beard <3
*** affectionate messages intensify ***
if he still insists i would tell you to get goatse out of the mothballs
are you in the toilet?
the same happened to me! worse, he wouldn't let go of her, like "stop fooling me." i know it's you ". my girlfriend was too polite to send her out for a walk. i took his phone and did it for him. he has since ceased.
maybe it was the same guy. lol.
wonder if the guy in the picture will eventually see this sub ...
id still hit it.
if he doesn't understand with that, ask yourself some serious questions.
the last time i changed my cell phone #, 10 years ago, there was a guy who kept calling me to talk to a man named olivier. i must have told him at least 5 times that he no longer had the correct number, that my name was not oliver and that it was not because he was trying again another day that suddenly an olivier was going to answer. this number.
not fast fast guy ...
sick beard love her
it was you who was trying to reach
worse? are you going to stuff yourself?
to any english speakers this is basically a wrong number text
david mitchell quebecois
bruh it's pt the right number but you don't know it 🧐
next time send him a pic dick. he might change his mind. do not have to take hold, take a random on the internet ...
holy shit, i know your face! you are in the papa quebec group! brahhhh i always forget that there is real queb on reddit haha
it doesn't change the case, but nothing says it's not a girl texting.
if so and she likes beards ...
send a pic dick
ask your girlfriend a few questions.
why do i keep getting the quebec subreddit recomended to me? i live in bc.
posting a photo of a dude and his private conversation, even if accidental and stupid, should not be allowed on this sub. i reported.
well if that's the case, i'll take it as a compliment 🤣
man, was gonna say "bah non, i got the right number"
> you sound like a guy who wants to talk to me about ~~ open source software. ~~ the fire alarm
i have just corrected you 😉
* laughs in x86-64 *
$ uname
linux
richard stallman quebecois haha
live free software !!!!!
he's not smooth at all, but at least he's honest about his intentions ha ha!
your surely a big pocket of popcorn since
hmmm, as far as i know schools don't collect taxes from parents?
i am sorry that this person there knows so many people who are in prison that it means that you received * several * calls like that.
deep down your real father has even more pain that you refuse his calls
me with!!! esti chu pu able. it's been years since it happened, it started when i changed my number. i told myself that it would end up stopping when the gara will have changed his info ... but i still get some. same as last week, i received a text saying that i was expected at the meeting place ...
wow i was not aware, i like to learn positive facts about quebec thank you op.
in canada apart from the territories it is fairly uniform, the contrast is striking with the usa, it must be the effect of a health system accessible to all?
it's quite sad to see nunavut having the darkest color on this map.
american ici! merci pour me notifiant je mourrai avant de...sorry for my bad french i follow this sub to help my learning the language. oddly enough i’d love to live in quebec at some point in my life.
we have to do something right. still quite important to mention!
[deleted]
certainly thanks to the maple syrup.
:)
[deleted]
it is thanks to our excellent welfare state ... which has been squandered for 30 years.
we have to keep our social gains, friends, there are people who fought for that!
wait for the 2020-2021 results
this is what gives a health system that is not based on satisfaction but on public health objectives. we all come out frustrated but it works.
a thought in the shower.
took me some time to figure out what was missing on the map .... 🇲🇽
i am never surprised to see that quebec is good at something.
given the many social measures put in place in quebec (such as public health care, etc.) it increases the quality of life and therefore are hopes ^^
tssé we cry well that we can do better (with good reason) but we must never forget all the means put in place which are often rare in north america.
we are the best at a lot of things tsey;).
this is always the argument i use for those who say that we have the worst health care system in the world;)
the graph is a bit skewed. we have a life expectancy of 83 years and the provinces a little paler it is 82. the difference seems more noticeable than it is.
[deleted]
big up in prince edward island which is also 83 years old but goes unnoticed next to quebec
is it the average age or the life expectancy?
i think it's because we cook more than roc.
should see the map of education, i believe that education has a big impact!
a graphic representation always requires a title!
the good poutine is sure to be
what is the source of the data?
it's a shame for the nunavutians ...
what's going on in the southern us?
i wonder what the average would be in the usa if they did not have on average more than 2 terrorist mass shootings per day
(for the curious
 )
for once?
congratulations quebec! my state of tennessee is seven months.
i would love to see a similar map, but from montreal.
this number is dropping right now with all the bad lifestyles that are associated with isolation and a sedentary lifestyle.
latin >>>> germanic
absoutely. there is a fairly obvious correlation with the level of poverty.
in the southern states, people's diets consist of junk food, fried piulet, french fries, mac n cheese, and lots of super artificial things.
imagine, every time you get sick, you ask yourself the question "endure or bankrupt me by going to the hospital".
you have health insurance if you work, so your boss can use it to threaten you (plus no unemployment insurance valid in most states).
i had cancer and i blessed every day to be born in quebec. it's been 5 years and everything is going well, with the bonus that i can still feed my family (it would be more difficult in the states ...).
the united states is a fantastic experiment, to show that savage capitalism is not a viable system.
ps: have you seen how it goes in texas? we pay for electricity according to demand, if there is more demand, you pay more. directly inspired by the bible of capitalism. guess what happened during the storm?
almost non-existent social services in the united states don't help either ...
there is surely an immense influence of suicides and intoxicants on this average. edit: the lack of access to care too, obviously.
it's certain. just to balance the sadness a little on the other hand, their number is in the same range as indonesia, russia, the philippines or ukraine, to name a few ...
it would be fun if it got closer to the provinces in the future, but we are not at a catastrophic third world level either. the world average is at 72.8.
so make it happen! projects are dreams you made a to-do list for!
really cool that you're doing this. you'll find that quebecers will almost flip out and become incredibly open and helpful when they see you taking an interest in learning the language. 
don't let go of the friend.
keep it up buddy! you’re doing great just by showing that much interest. i’ll pay you a poutine anytime
the public health system is far from perfect, but it does exist, and that already puts us in front of the states. then then, we like to enjoy life here; work to live, not live to work. it's different from roc culture a bit. knowing how to live and let live is more in our culture and it literally works. less stress, you live longer.
then there are surely other factors, but they are difficult to guess. usually nutrition is the most important aspect after the health system for longevity, but hey we allow ourselves a lot of indulgences here though .. me first haha.
we share many things in common with california. the fight against pollution, the search for social equality, the fight against corruption, a taste for good music and good food.
in terms of the fight against pollution, quebec does it for the love of nature and for the economy, california because it was the most polluted place in the world from the 1960s to the 1990s.
where is our gdp per capita of 80k usd?
ark
with poutine *
a good start would be to assess our use of the word investment, especially in cash black holes like bombardier et al. entk, without getting too much into the pointless online whining, you're 100% right.
should keep it but above all improve it and bring it up to date. we're throwing $ 50 billion a year into an outdated system that's probably worth less than half.
100%
it won't change anything.
because, of course, anyone who speaks one of the other 10 languages speaks absolutely no english and lives there with no one else understood. / s
frankly. a quebecker struggling with english who has just moved to calgary might need such an important document translated into french, just like an italian or a japanese. everyone needs a mini base in english to live in calgary, this is really just a shameful excuse.
they do tabarnak on purpose. worse, it comes to lecture us on minorities. imagine if we did the same by saying: “hey, 94% of quebecers say they speak french. move along, there's nothing to see ".
"there is no need to translate the french, they have already been assimilated"
describing from the serious electoral system
alberta has a french-speaking secretariat that you should contact to mention the problem. since 2018, it has had a language policy that raises awareness among government agencies.
it really is stupid bullshit when you know that more than 200,000 albertans speak french.
> for the most part, those who speak french also speak english
oh, fuck off.  
i would have sworn in french, but then elections calgary wouldn't care.
[deleted]
i have a friend who lived there (and came back because she wasn't able to) who had asked for services in french and it was made to say "french is like english, but the letters are at hand. wrong place ".
can we give points for originality?
send that to the media !!!
\ * cough cough \ * systemic discrimination \ * cough cough \ *
scandalous enwèye that to the media xd
speak white dude.
anglos sincerely believe that in quebec, we all speak english among ourselves and that french is simply a language that we learn at school, like the irish and gaelic.
so we should follow the same logic in quebec. the english who live here must surely understand french.
i would be curious to see the reactions of canada if quebec would have done the same thing ie the official french paper with the translations for our minorities being english!
in my opinion, this is a clearly political choice. not directly from the patient, but from officials.
ah it's simple.
canada doesn't give a damn about the french.
it is in these times that we realize that a negavote button is missing on the sms apps. it seems that it helps to lower the pressure when the blood is boiling.
because the destruction of the french fact remains a goal in the minds of many canadians.
it's hard to use your bilingualism against you. as if you didn't have to be bilingual to be able to communicate with the rest of the country.
i'm the kind of person who would take it and not let go of the song before having my official french translation.
wow, fuck me. as an anglophone, this is completely unacceptable. please reach out to media to get coverage of this story. canada is home to anglophones and francophones alike.
english guy here. i am sorry, i do not speak french. however, this is absurd. we have 2 official languages. is this even legal?
because what they want is for you to keep your name but to assimilate yourself completely, so that your children can then go on twitter to complain about equalization like martin pelletier.
the equivalent of our "there's nothing but to learn french" that the anglos hate so much, but institutionalized.
no no french is not in danger in america. / s
serious ? in a "bilingual" country, it looks like they are punishing you for being bilingual. it is an unjustifiable omission.
and yet in alberta, i had a complete translation in french on paper and orally
10 translations no french? it's deliberate
at the level of the canadian constitution, there is no constitutional obligation of institutional bilingualism for the provinces except for quebec and new brunswick.
quebec, since 1867, and new brunswick, since 1982, are the only provinces that have a constitutional obligation to translate and publish all of its laws in both official languages.
since 1982, the provinces must offer primary and secondary education in the language of the minority.
there is also a very theoretical right to have a trial in the language of one's choice, which outside quebec is regularly violated for francophones.
and that's not all bad.
the rest is at the discretion of the provinces when a jurisdiction falls under their jurisdiction, in this case municipal elections.
the constitution was made to divide the francophones and protect the ghettoized anglophones of quebec. by guaranteeing fundamental language rights in new brunswick but not in quebec, the federal government has made francophones outside quebec swallow the hope that their language and culture will be protected. we know the rest ...
oh well, we just have to withdraw services in english in quebec because english speakers should know how to speak french.
i wonder if it would pass if i run as a candidate in montreal and write the same thing about those who speak in english.
after that wants to pass pipelines in quebec.
soon, in a metropolis near you!
wow! it's revolting!!!
for real.
in alberta you mean?
caliss that we are racist you should shut your eyes and take the vietnamese version.
i do not believe it! it's disgusting anyway!
i've been to a dive site in ontario and a group of quebec friends were talking to each other in french, and i heard a girl behind us say "they're in ontario can't they make an effort to speak english? "... roc sometimes disgusts me it's not even funny because any other language they would have been the first to defend them
it reminds me of anglophones in quebec who complain about not having access to essential services in english ...
i sent a complaint to the city of calgary and this is what they responded to me.
''municipal elections are governed by the local authorities election act, which does not prescribe language requirements for the conduct of elections. this is the first municipal election where elections calgary offered translations of the election guide. the city of calgary is continually working on making our processes and practices more inclusive, fair, equitable and accessible for all. the election guide translations started with the top ten (10) languages based on the calgary language map which shows the percentage of the population in calgary wards, communities and dissemination areas that speak a language other than english most often at home.  
we are committed to evaluating and assessing our municipal election resources to ensure the delivery of an accessible election. we will continue to add translations of the election guide in additional languages, including french. as additional translations become available in the coming days, they will be published on electionscalgary.ca (for voters (calgary.ca)).''
unpopular opinion: if you can't speak either of the official languages you shouldn't be able to vote.
before tearing our shirt off, let's remember that bill 96 would make it * illegal * for several quebec cities to offer services in english.
both on one side and the other, it is heartbreaking.
i imagine for the same reason that quebec [does not offer services in english] ( -english-communications-from-province-1.5417019). law 101 prevents the english-speaking population prevents people from receiving services in english [and it is made worse under legault] ( -to-english-services-under-new-caq-rules). in calgary it is missing due to laziness, at least it is not prohibited by law as in quebec
that's the trick, we don't.
learn to speak english sti dboomers
\> asks question in english about no french being on information guide  
\> gets told most people who speak french also speak english  
can you believe this craziness. lul
itt: victims
the same way quebec does it with english…. who passes… .. a fucking law about it… .in fact several laws lol
the french-only population in calgary is .1% 
[source](
the english-only population of montreal is 14%
[source](
i presume you are far more outraged at the services in quebec that are not provided in english then?
no one cares lol
[deleted]
it's * bullshit *, it's mostly to look good.
i have resentment in ~~ the ~~ the blood.
~~ i have the right ~~ i have the dua
yeah that's normal, he uses statistical methods to come up with suggestions.
i guess he's looking at what other french speakers write in the same geographic area.
in short, tokébac here is my tbk!
good saint-jean tabarnak
ride your 'hupe, finish your bieh, get on the har, we're going up to town.
**screeching in prescriptivism**
gmail also puts you an error if you write "as soon as the wind blows, i will leave".
i'll let you see [his suggestion] ( 🙃
i'm (i'm?) late for the party but: to the ordeal
to calvary
what's my kid is that he suggests you put a space after the apostrophe
^^^ alt + 0160 for non-breaking spaces that reddit does not cut
ej jump from the conversation with my chiac, let's go.
j dilla
the result of machine learning algorithms. they end up serving you what the majority of people write,
google auto-detect language: la chicane
oh ordeal
have pity on the poor gmail autocorrector. i had french teachers who weren't able to explain how "de / du / des / de la" etc work.
wouldn't you have written it once before and then there's the piton stuck, el 'sibouère?
long live acadia!
so formal with the apostrophe
perfection will be the suggestion 'icitte' instead of here !!
yes yes 🥖🥖 french french
i put it on ... your misery at what simonak ?! 🤣
normally this is caused because the user has requested to make this change before.
remember me, i devour my body
i have ~~ rabies in a cage
~~ hold me back ~~ ertiens-moé, ~~ i ~~ i devour my body
i need you to tell me ~~ the ~~
the body
i need you to ~~ me ~~ tell me
not easy to pronounce on the other hand
it doesn't mean
in my worst mistakes
in reality we should even do a contraction on "de toé" -> "d'toé", right?
it is beautiful, our language!
r/redditsings
> tell me
*m'lady*
~~ i don't want ~~ i don't want to know your songs
in all the songs from quebec, i think it's the verse that i hate the most… worst.
"the worst" is already a great mistake in itself
i want you to say that you love me
yeah, in my memories i thought it was "morese worse", i found it funny how it sounded
worse there a little while ago i listened to the song again, and i find that it seems to cut so badly
me, there's this one and "i work for my livelihood. "
yep
tokebakicite! either there is less 20 or more 30!
and fa'cho in this
oubien the ultimate
ch'creuve tabarnak
it's good to do it
fâ bô fâ chô we é well it's summer it's going to be fine 🌈
do you pass the test?
back home is so facho that it frets me in the back
heil fa'cho!
fa'chô for the water pump
it would have been better with marshal pétain, but several might not have understood the reference.
looooo raymond drop el offage
i'm lucky to have them so at home
in gatineau it's -35 or +35 worse i hope you like the humidity.
-1000 or 35 *
not to be confused with its homophone which means "i'm exhausted"
ben*
come home, my little chalice.
drink some water you might be dehydrated
hey it's hot
does that same as montreal
the accuracy!
ch'crevé?
i don't know, are you?
you're still alive! worse?
with the storm we just had; i was surprised to be still
i think the canadian had a 30% winrate when chris lee was referee during one of their game. in addition, végas would have an interest in winning, in order to attract investors to expand the nhl.
in addition, this kind of non-call is fachant because often in series, we let things go because "it could change the outcome of the match". like, tell your world not to play cabochon but it looks like it's too hard.
not sure this is the best place to post a beaverton article
[someone on r / hockey pulled out the numbers] (
chris lee penalizes other teams on average 1% less than the league average. for ch, it's 13% more.
it's true that in the playoffs we let a lot go by, but that's not the kind of penalty we should let go ...
it is, however, exceedingly good. even the anglos see at the moment that the referees of the series against vegas are clearly biased. on the streak with perry, the referee looks exactly in his direction when he receives the stick and does nothing….
and we will not talk about what we heard in the microphone that we thought to cut a few days ago ...
why?
increase a little the tolerance vis-a-vis the collision, etc, well, ok.
tolerate a stick in the face, no.
seems not hard.
> and we will not talk about what we heard in the microphone that we thought to cut a few days ago ...
could you talk about it? i do not know what you're talking about.
"a few days". it's been 3 months lol
because it's in english and english isn't fine
you haven't seen the same game as me, it's clearly perry's nose kicking marchessault's stick. / s
boarf the player who takes the hit did not have to be in the way of the stick! / s
on the other hand, it was not a ch game, my mistake. still, this is surely not the first time that this kind of bias exists, just one of the rare times when they get caught….
rendered at a certain age 3 months is only a few days.
bouhou
this is it now. perry should have had one two minutes for nudging, and another 2 minutes for delaying the game because they had to clean his blood from the ice.
wow. if we needed proof that the referees were cheating, here it is. tell yourself that he thought he was saying this to other referees, ie this is their usual kind of conversation.
right, the others didn't say like: wtf is not allowed to do this.
personally, it makes me want to boycott the nhl. worse, i just went to see the list of stanley cup winners over the years ... i just realized that the last canadian team to win was the canadiens in 1993. i'm seriously starting to believe that they tell the referees to lose the canadian teams. they know the canadians are going to keep buying nhl products and watching the games even when their teams lose while the americans won't.
> personally, it makes me want to boycott the nhl
way ahead of you!
there might be one thing to understand here. for "them" (ie english-speaking canadians) what is "ours" (ie quebecois) is also theirs (that will say canadian), because when they think of canada, that includes also quebec. from this point of view, everything that is quebec, ontario or alberta is a priori canadian at the same time. so yes, an english-speaking canadian can say with a straight face that "we (canadians) made this." on the contrary, for many french-speaking quebecers, culturally speaking, the roc is almost a foreign neighboring country, and this same is the result of it.
it misses the stage where canada uses it to mock and ridicule quebec.
something that has always annoyed me: if there is positive news in quebec, the reactions on the internet will be of the "way to go, canada!" but if it's negative it's going to be "fucking quebec"
they can say whatever they want .. but the roc poutine is inedible 3 out of 4 times (shredded cheese or bad gravy).
in a way, we just have the pride of having invented this dish ... but i find that already enough!
forget the end where we were crisscrossing morons to like to eat fries with cheese.
osti que c bon d'la poutine!
[deleted]
hahaha the worst poutine ever in a rest area in ontario on the 401, a shame lol! okay, maybe i shouldn't have had a poutine in a rest area but in quebec we have institutions that have made their success with poutine, does that exist in the roc?
a comparison i like: it's like the english in england shit on scottish kilts ... until it gets popular outside of the uk and then suddenly it's a british garment.
another contraption which has semi-relation with this: i found it really silly during the 2010 olympics when the [inuit sculptures (inuksuk)] ( were absolutely all over vancouver, as if it had always been a big home-from-home canayan symbol. i found it opportunistic and forced. it had its place, of course, but it sounded wrong, like roc poutine on a background of red maple leaves.
/ r / poutineisquebecois
'' i want to say open your blinders your horizons your borders
do not try to eat other things than hot chickens from the tourtière
worse when you come to china, sacre-moé patience 'et your poutine
is there anything to be proud of in this potato cheese sauce?
did you know that the english eat gravy and chips
add an extra cheese, i've just ruined your trip
if you've got a fleur-de-lis tattooed on your heart
if it's chauvinism, that's where it sickens me
it's the same closed world that fuels the steeple wars
it's sad to cry out but it's easy to summarize ''
do other provinces also have this problem with the culinary specialties of their region?
or do all english speakers have the idea of calling their local specialties “canadian”?
i have seen similar posts between israel and palestine where the israelis appropriate the palestinian culture but we are talking about a different country and at war.
visiting o bc, on an island in georgia straight, there is a trailer that sells montreal style bagels.
are you more representative?
oh holdon, look. its the same thing claiming it made the thing it made, thats crazy.
yes, because quebec is one of canada's sons.
[deleted]
even if the vast majority of the world in this sub do not want to understand it, quebec is part of canada.
so yes any canadian can say that poutine is canadian. especially to tourists!
ciborium .. its last days there is a lot of bashing of the anglos .... after the world say that there is no systemic racism lol
it might be valid if they (english-speaking canadians) hadn't spent decades shitting on poutine and using it as an example to bask in quebec until it became more recognized elsewhere in the world. the world and suddenly "it's canadian".
well said.
> when they think of canada, it also includes quebec
hey, i'm not so sure about that. if * canadians are so nice *, but also * those french are fucking assholes *, can we conclude (by [* modus tollens *] ( that french speakers do are not canadians?
okay, i'm kidding around here a bit, but to be honest i'm never sure what english speakers include when they talk about canada. there doesn't really seem to be any consistency. it sometimes looks like what another comment in this thread says: if canadians are happy with something that has to do with quebec it is * yeah canada! *, while if they are unhappy it is * fucking quebec ... * and quebec may not even be the only part of the country that has this effect on them. to say that something is "canadian" is almost just a way of saying we like it, much like the canadiens also take over the phone and basketball.
best example: the olympics. when quebec athletes bring home a good proportion of medals, it is a canadian success. because somehow equalization has developed that talent, or something like that.
talk to the scottish athletes: when andy murray wins a title, it's "the brit wins another tournament". when he loses, the tabloids will instead headline "the scot lost in the quarter-finals to auger-aliassime"
> we just have the pride of having invented this dish ...
and the flag, and the national anthem, and the name of the country, and the coureurs-des-bois, and ...
don't don't don't
in other provinces this tide is pouteen
two different complementary dishes
> but the roc poutine is inedible 3 times out of 4
you mean 4 times out of 4
it's good potatoes!
improved with che..hen? sorry in advance if jlis just bad sarcasm 😬
i was going to say mozzarella, but yeah, that hardly changes anything. is always taint.
i ate one not worse deg in vancouver ..... mushroom sauce and the cheese came from quebec so not fresh at all ......
** steeple war ** [\\ ɡɛʁ də klɔ.ʃe \\] ( * female *
* (* [* figuré *] ( *) * * (often ironic) * set of small [jealousies] ( //fr.wiktionary .org / wiki / jalousie) [petty] ( from [struggles] ( [imbeciles] ( : //fr.wiktionary.org/wiki/imb%c3%a9cile), for [futile] reasons ( between inhabitants of [cities] ( //fr.wiktionary.org/wiki/ville) or from [villages] ( [more or less] ( plus_or_minus) [distant] ( or between two people or two groups of people belonging to the same set.
i don't think it looks like hommard is a canadian dish, just because it's a specialty of the maritimes.
the same goes for western beef.
now ... are there other culinary examples from the canadian provinces? i don't know any ...
oh, yeah, we're 100% the same thing, absolutely. same culture, same taste for everything, same origins... wait...
can we at least share a good laugh about how we love to hate each other?
i am a federalist and i find it ridiculous to say that it is canadian.
ok. if we say it's quebec, canada. but just talking about canada when it's good, and talking about quebec when it's bad, it's boring in the long run.
the best way to make federalism work with quebec is to give it its tiny place.
the poutine is quebecois. the fact that quebec is part of canada is irrelevant. she's not canadian and she never will be. period.
[deleted]
unfortunately, many people in this sub believe that quebec is a country apart ... :(
were you born yesterday english canada ridiculed quebec about poutine until the americans discovered it. if the americans had said "ouache c'est ben degeu" the canadians would have said "yeah lol, stupid quebec". but the americans liked it so "yes, this is a famous canadian dish"
the first nations are part of canada too. do you mean i can wear a feather hat and call it a "traditional canadian hat"?
i would have had no problem that the poutine was canadian if they had recognized its value from the start.
to say that the pizza is european is still frustrating for an italian.
within a so-called multicultural country, it is the same thing: it is necessary to underline the nuances which are in the end a richness instead of making them disappear.
eliminate quebec's contribution to canada, especially to tourists !, it's just insulting for nothing.
americans are able to mention their regional dishes normally. we should do it too.
ok now i'm going to say that the dream catcher is from quebec because there are indian reserves in quebec? do you see how your argument sucks
no, what we are seeing is quebeckers lightly denouncing the crap treatment they are entitled to by anglophones and the rest of canada.
i honestly haven't seen any free bashing for english speakers here. for example, take a look at r / canada or any other publication where quebec is mentioned and you will see what systemic racism is.
what is the relationship of the "systemic" in there.
besides, protesting racism against us is not racism against them.
[deleted]
it's the same speech in other countries i've noticed, it bashs the food of other regions but then once it becomes popular it brags.
exact! it seems to me that it's not even 20 years they (the rock) shit on poutine precisely ... that we were less than nothing to eat that.
> it might be valid if they (english-speaking canadians) hadn't spent decades shitting on poutine
that explains the taste of the one i was unable to eat in cornwall.
i think there is a big difference between what the english-speaking media think of quebec's place in the definition of canada, and what people actually think. from loggers in remote bc to ranchers in alberta, i never felt like a stranger to them.
i sometimes wonder how far we can push the stopper of cultural appropriation. i don't come from st-élie de caxton but i like fred pellerin, as estrien, ctu ownership ??? it's far-fetched, but you'll understand my point.
[deleted]
and maple syrup! and hockey! ... ha ... f ......
not to be confused with grated poutine in nb!
no. i dont love to hate quebec. i hate separatists and racists. i love montreal, living and working there was fantastic, i consider it my second home. french canadian culture is an integral part of canadian culture. just like any country with different ethnic groups. same flag, same prime minster. thats all that matters.
and my party
personally, the flag of martinique with the snakes has always fascinated me. it's as if it was the one from quebec but an alternative bizarro world version.
not quebecois, but it’s a beautiful flag. i have it hanging from one of the walls in my living room here in the u.s.
here is [my flag] ( proudly floating from my home!
it is also world squirrel appreciation day.
(no joke)
i have mine in my room proudly hung on my wall! ^^^^ with ^^^^ the ^^^^ flag ^^^^ du ^^^^ flq ^^^^;)
'always remembered his year of adoption: 1948.
no idea why i have this info stored in my head.
we really have a beautiful flag!
it feels good to have posts in french once in a while
[my flag] (
fun fact: today is the 21st day of the 21st year of the 21st century
technically, today is the day of the [modern carillon] ( the fleurdelisé not being adopted until february 2, 1948.
but it's just like and nothing prevents us from celebrating it twice! happy feast to our flag!
it's nice that delisé lends us her flowers for that!
then we could go eat the fal in fell!
( this took me 30 minutes of research and making sure it worked in french. plus i'm using an anglo clavier, so please upvote!). does it make sense as a joke in french, a very simple joke, i know.
my french is not good. but i'm talking unicode u + 269c (⚜)!
flag of quebec, hello,
to you my respect, my loyalty, my pride,
long live quebec,
long live his flag.
but what a pretty flag
how many days of january 21 i spent not knowing that
the flower of the jourdelisé
january 21, 2021 of the 21st century at 9:21 pm.
drop you, we can see your watch!
happy birthday, unless your name is kévune then: happy birthday my tabarnak, you're an asshole osti!
happy birthday! 🎂
[happy birthday!] (
happy birthday ^ keveunne, ^^ continue ^^ like ^^ that!
and mine!! cool :)
ayy happy birthday old man!
happy birthday!!! but if you're kevin i say to you instead of happy birthday:
hey kevin the dog, you tabarnak pedophile. you look like a colisse of deficient brewers flowing everywhere! i wet thinking of brushing your seed with peanuts butter by offering yourself as a sacrifice to a pack of transgenic squirrels at a jamboree of scouts in need of jeanettes to then build a mega website "www.crisse-de-loser .com "with your photos. go get antiflogestin injected into your urethra with a mono gun!
happy birthday !!
happy birthday!
it is also the feast of my father and my son. no, no, i'm not fry's father (and son).
it's mine too !! happy birthday!!!
happy birthday: d!
when it comes time to put a quebec flag emoji on facebook, this is an acceptable replacement.
there's even an emoji!
🇲🇶
hello from montréal!
ça c'tin bo drapo
what did you take as a flag pole?
🐿️⚜️🐿️
you just need the flag of canada to really mix the cards. the flq wasn't great there against the quebec flag and what does that represent in terms of symbolism? i ask myself the question more than anything else but if you have an answer, so much the better!
the best!
i also noticed that there were more and more posts in english.
a bad big flag! 😁
two flags, twice celebrated!
lol! 🍻
i'll buy it for you in two weeks, your beautiful snake
awaille kevin ostie continues like this, we like it all the same.
haha thank you!
thank you!!
a classic!! thank you!
hey, marci chum!
prediction: he will say that we have "a few difficult weeks ahead of us but we can see the light at the end of the tunnel"
are you ready for another (x) day challenge?
i don't want to kill myself, but i hope that a van that i haven't seen will run out of station wagon while i turn onto a boulevard.
i have solid life insurance and investments and a family with money and my girlfriend too, they would do well i'm sure.
i see all the challenges before the human race and i have more hope.
0, zero, nada, nothing, fuck all
when this big virus has passed it will be the climate and a war with chinese sauce is really not impossible ...
it's a nightmare, i want to go to my mother's basement and bawl in a little ball. but no, we have to pretend that all is well, for my wife, the children and the colleagues.
heille it's sure that i have the concentration to draw tabarnak of pipe lines on relives when the world collapses around me!
the worst part is that i know that i am pathetic and i have 0 reasons to complain. i console myself in the same way: imagine owning restaurants. imagine being poor and in a 2-1 / 2 like when i was 20.
t'a max thunder who talks about a great summer every day, it feels good, i don't really think so, but it feels good. keep joking around, laughing, there's nothing that can take that away from us.
well i go back to my pipes ...
edit: you are all champions, thank you for the support. i really peter a tick this morning seeing this post. i thought after yesterday's conference that we would just have to be serious and be careful and it was going to be okay ... i took the rest of my day and i went for a bike ride with it. my guy even though it's gray outside. i feel much better. i also made an appointment with my doctor to see my options.
change your mind every 24 hours, make contradictory decisions, accept religious gatherings of 250 people but ban those who are not ...... open closed open closed, say that we must take care of our guardian angels but offer them shitty collective agreements ....
be careful not to strip the screw.
from the article in la presse:
> "i am very frank with you, currently, we have scenarios for unfortunately increasing the restrictions in the five regions which are currently difficult", said the prime minister on tuesday.
>  
> “it could go further than the current red. ** we could go back to the red we had before, then to a curfew at 8 p.m., for example. even in some places around the world there is a 6:00 p.m. curfew **. \ [… \] beyond what we currently have in orange, then red, there are all kinds of measures that exist. "
cursed mard. can someone tell him at legault that the places that have curfews at 6 p.m. are in the middle of the third wave, that it had 0 impact on the transmission of the virus? that even in some places, like in [toulouse] ( l-epidemie-bien-au-contre_39076621.html), experts who said that the 9 p.m. curfew had some usefulness said that the 6 p.m. curfew increased the transmission of the virus by compressing all activities daily in a very short period of time?
looks like he's doing buckley's syrup reasoning. do you remember the announcements? "you know it works because it tastes bad"? well it's the same logic here "the more it hurts, the more it must do good"! well, buckley's mentality or the mentality of medieval flagellants, the madmen who whipped themselves in the public square to suffer in order to appease the wrath of god and the black plague.
contrat moral here we go again
i thought he was monitoring the hospitalizations and not the cases before tightening the screw?
the view is u'lac !!!
it's a worm
i would like to refer you to [my conspiratorial comment from last night] (
> i call him right away: if the story goes wrong and the caq is in hot water, legault will announce new arbitrary 'covid' measures to create a diversion
that's all.
the next weeks of your special
so there it is. i'm giving up.
the only reason i'm not pitching in front of a tank is that i can't do this to my friends, but i'm hoping that a random van will pick me up soon. more than a year now that i can no longer see the people i love, that the activity i was passionate about is out of reach, that i can just work as a gamer, work as a gamer ... i can be. i may just have been able to. worse, each time they give us hope, they immediately take it back.
the vaccines are there, most of the elderly are vaccinated, the cases remain relatively low and the hospitalizations even more, and despite that they will still decide to confine us and put us in a super-low curfew that violates our rights. more basic. where's the hope? there is not any. the government has fallen on its head and waits for 0 cases when it does not exist, that is the only explanation. in a year we will still be here, i see more reason to want to continue.
worse if someone comes to suggest psychological help: go shit. seeing a shrink tabarnak will not give me back my passions and my friends, it will help me 0 and a bar criss. worse your sports estis, i hate that sport, it helps me screeching not to do something that i have always hated! yes but bigging it is good for mental health not in any context and not systematically esti!
if my entourage was not as eager and worse agreed to deny themselves instead of licking legault's ass too ... but no. they fell into the fear campaign.
i have never hated anyone as much as i hate our pm. nothing he's doing right now is necessary, he's just completely cuddling with us. what would it be like to allow small outdoor gatherings of 3-4 people, as long as allowing religious indoor gatherings of 250 ??? well no see, we should give nothing to the small people, we do not care about them! a depressed people is a docile people!
downvote me, i don't care.
[deleted]
according to months, it is a square screw, pi they could not find the screwdriver.
they found him in the garage in the morning.
i'm not anti-mask, conspiratorial and i supported the measures quite a bit ... but now ... vaccination is progressing quickly ... when will people's mental health enter into their calculations? what is their solution, everyone at the psychologist for the next 5 years while we remain confined?
bye bye gyms -_-"
[deleted]
"science is changing from day to day" - something a scientist would never say.
after that they wonder why the world is dropping out.
the old people are vaccinated, will you be patient!
are we going to close the restaurants for 28 days like in november? oh wait they are still closed ...
mass civil disobedience is the only way we get out of this situation. it was like that from the start. if we let them decide when we can remove the restrictions that earn them thousands of dollars with each ticket, it never would be. if you think june 24 is the end of the tunnel right now, why are they being honest there after lying every turn? they told us that as soon as the elderly were vaccinated, we could remove the restrictions. but, most of the elderly are vaccinated and they are adding restrictions. they lied there and we will see that they are lying by saying that june 24 is the goal. they will find something to justify their restrictions. they constantly lie, that's what they do. they are not our friends. we can't trust them
meanwhile juvenile porn is at its highest than ever, women are beaten, young people are in the streets getting shot, condo construction is pushing as much as covid (no hospital being built since btw) but turns have gone condo yes .... in the name of the father and the holy covid lol
chalice me with the lock-tight sua vis, squeal me the impact 1 "the dsu pi tchien lé until time for a little fret or a strip! zero cases and voila, sfini. tadaaaa
there's a vislack!
how the legault government is making decisions to manage the pandemic
insanity is always doing the same thing and expecting a different result every time.
we must prepare for the fourth wave!
let's do like china! the benefactor paternal state will protect us! we must trust him and give him all our rights and freedoms! in exchange, we will have the health passports, the health codes to barguine our rights. worse also the happy privilege of keeping our masks for life! questions to remember that we are muzzled and that our right is to sit still and farm our eyes. ben what, it is to save the life of grand popa !!
are you really cynical or well there are still some who are pissed off in the ass and the ears are full of misery?
the vaccine, well there is nothing against the "new wave" of covid. wow. it's surprising eh? fak apart to enrich the pharmaceutical companies, it was of no use. continue to be hypochondriac. it's going to be fine!
what pisses me off the most is being hooked up with a flank gang that can't get along. taking the whole gang outside, no masks, there wouldn't be any problem. but there are too many who relegate their responsibilities and blindly trust the government. as if our interests really mattered to them.
there's a slack screw.
does he have his permits to work in construction?
curfew at 6 p.m. for the easter long weekend?
another owe, and i get voted down every time: damn half-measures, too late, abandoned too soon that make no difference.
it's getting ridiculous. i understand that some decisions come from the federal government so it's not just a complaint against the provincial gvmt, they have that in common.
it would have been necessary to be very tough from the start.
i'm in ontario (ottawa) and although it wouldn't have made sense 6 months ago, the red zone can keep restaurants open at 50%.
worse i think it makes sense. until now, the sources of outbreaks have been the workplace and the school environment.
and it is clear why. the damned just can't keep their social distance and wash their hands.
but hey, we now know that many public places do not cause mass infections when the measures are applied.
she is stripping the screw !!!
in any case, it looks like legault is seriously looking at himself in this photo.
my osti from tabarnak
i think we should change the type of screw, take an owner and not give the screwdriver to legault.
check bin la vis if faire torquer for [torquemada](
your damn mouse
while the workplaces are still not aware that it has been taking real masks for 8 months ... in addition, they don't even have them in their face all the time. i just learned that, i'm flabergast! we can be confined permanently. otherwise we would be like the united states or worse!
i live my vinaigrette.
put loctite ciborium
the more we are going to let ourselves be done the worse it will be. see that there are some who still believe in the covid excuse. 9n is the country where we can take away the most rights. enouaille! another 2 week to flatten the curve! cellar gang.
"targeted measures" are planned in quebec and the outaouais, with the return of the curfew at 8 p.m. and the closure of non-essential businesses. we would return to the measures to those in effect at the beginning of january, we told la presse. a scenario of closing schools in the cities of quebec and gatineau is mentioned after the easter break.
seriously tabarnak of osti de viarge mustard calis.
me my "drill" is ready!
i hope it's not wood screws because we're going to end up with a slack hole
and what does the deputy prime minister think?
this kind of news really attracts a very special kind of bug in the comments.
why put a picture of perry with his face in great shape? i do not see the link.
i'm an nhl referee by the way.
blue white hemoglobin
there are vampires who play hockey and i didn't even know it ...
must add gallagher too! 🤣
petry really had eyes like that? i thought i saw badly the other day ...
off topic, but those who haven't seen there will be blood, watch esti. masterpiece criss, one of ddl's best performances.
with blood, they look like white walkers. perry always looks like a white walker.
[i drink your… gatorade] (
i was looking forward to this one lol 👍🏻
what happened ?
hi chris, are you working tonight?
lmao of the big quality this how, thank you!
are playing*
absoutely.
yep
a film calisse that
of course, always on the lookout, ready to punish the slightest offense of the canadians.
jouzent *
don't forget to go blind when you see the opposing team doing the same things!
enjoy *
[that comment has aged badly] (
everyone caught the female dog of the mega traffic and are arranged differently. now that we have seen that there weren't so many i can't wait to see if everyone is going to say to themselves "ah i'm going the same, there's no traffic" and if it's going to jam by friday
city planners aren't crazy when they claim that narrowing down the lanes of a freeway improves traffic (and adding more increases congestion)
i just hope our politicians take notice
my colleagues in lévis have remained teleworking or have taken time off ...
seriously there is no traffic? my parents have just come to visit me and told me that they were not thinking of going back to quebec because of the work. i joked to them "are you doing this to convince people of the need for the 3rd link?" »i open reddit, first thing i see is this. lol
it was announced in advance and the people adapt because it only lasts 2 weeks.
the city of quebec obliges firefighters and police officers living on the south shore to be accommodated on the north shore and i think that several other companies are doing so at present.
the mtq threw out sketches of monster congestion to scare people and it worked.
i see this post and i think op is really misinformed or badly intentioned in his speech.
come on .. i'm breaking up before being called a fascist.
to be on the bridge right now, i guarantee it's blocked stiff.
and meanwhile, my nursing colleagues and i are separating the only thermometer that works in our emergency because "we don't have the budget for others".
telecommuting, carpooling, public transport. fuck the 3rd link at ~~ 4 ~~ ~~ 7 ~~ 10 billion
we'll see tomorrow and wednesday ...
[deleted]
if a whole is shut down for work, people will temporarily change their habits, or needs, knowing full well that this is temporary and can procrastinate. the 2nd link (3rd only if the 105 year old non-government bridge remains open) is a necessity.
the world who live on an island with 5 times more links per capita can close their eyes.
it's not blocked on the bridge, it's blocked before. it took 2 hours for a guy from my job to come up this morning. my boss sleeps on the north shore in a hotel paid for by the company so she can be there at a time that makes sense. i do not know you take your info or but you are in the field buddy osti.
[deleted]
does everyone here understand that the infrastructure needs maintenance? even more when they are at the end of their life.
quebec announces work, people are adapting.
there is no big conspiracy.
am i a conspirator if i believe in this post a bit?
possible, as has already been said elsewhere, that the caq just wanted to propose a project that pogne in quebec (other than a stadium, someone else took care of putting us on that side ...) , but which has no allure. the federal government will refuse to embark because of that, and the caq is making political capital in quebec by basing the federal government ...
not sure that this is indeed the case, but i find the hypothesis interesting to explain this unrealistic project.
the current situation in pierre laporte will just make this scenario a little more difficult for the caq ... the 3rd link will be more difficult to defend ...
what else could they find?
olympics? another stadium? a peripheral highway?
first week without university, cegep, secondary or primary, on a monday. but clearly the traffic on the bridge doesn't exist \ s
i think it's worth saying:
i personally don't care about the 3rd link. i find that legault is exaggerating with his plan and that dorion is not productive in proposing as an alternative "nothing at all" (sorry but that is not how it works in politics). but at the end of the day, it doesn't prevent me from sleeping much at night.
in politics you have to know how to choose your wars and your battles, and you should not mix up your battles for wars.
but by dint of watching this sub i have the impression that it is downright the only subject of politics for some. the 2022 election will not take place on the 3rd link. talking about it every day only gives the impression that qs has nothing else to say.
but i understand. i read the polls, i see that dorion's siege is on the line and zanetti's probably already lost. so i understand her. it is a direct issue for his constituents and his count is at the heart of the matter.
but i don't think trying to demonize the subject every day is productive. usually it has the opposite effect and i have more and more the impression that the face in picture 4 is going to be that of the qs voters when they realize that legault has an even bigger victory than that of 2018, especially if dorion loses anyway, with the same confusion as in the picture.
there are people who have good reasons to be for the 3rd link. if you deny and ridicule these reasons you are pretty much scoring in your own way.
there are some good reasons to be against it, but believing that it will change the future of the planet is nothing but ecological narcissism.
it makes no difference that the police and firefighters were forced to stay at the hotel on the side of their job, that the large employers (desjardins, etc.) have encouraged additional teleworking, that we have transferred drugs to delay the effects of 'a heart attack on the south shore in case there are infarcts that we don't have time to transport in hemodynamics to laval, as long as it advances your political point, good.
one would think hearing the classic "fret today, faque your warming does not exist hahaha"
your post has aged really badly haha
\ -must a tramway! the traffic is monstery!
\ -there is no traffic
[deleted]
why is this in my home feed
attend, attend attend.
you are telling me that the urban planning experts who study urban planning make urban planners experts in urban planning were right all this time to say that if you influence people to want to drive as by building roads bah they still drive more and you collect yourself with more traffic, but that if you push them to other means bah they find other means and that reduces the traffic?
so let's see you there thing wo menute butterfly there
edit: i just saw the message from / u / skysi42 below. i apologize, but it still flabbergast me how much politicians ignore planners, ciborium.
induced demand - a very interesting concept.
we call it a temporary change, people have postponed their movement because it is temporary, could not be permanent.
all my colleagues who were to go to the north shore did not go there today.
i was supposed to cross the bridge today, i did it yesterday instead.
it's been 2 weeks that we have been told about fears 24/7 with this.
no ... it must be because traffic at bridges is an urban legend.
it's like “quebec, shit, pas de monde” in 1984. they scared the world so much by telling them that we should sleep in drummond that in the end, no one came ...
the more the experts are against the third link, the more the caq is in favor. it is purely electoral.
nope. they won't take note of it.
we should close the montreal and laval highways then, that would finally solve the congestion!
as much as 1 cold day does not deny climate change, as much as 1 day when everyone has moved heaven and earth to not have to pass on the bridge is not a sign that cutting tracks reduces traffic.
i'm not saying the opposite, i'm just curious about what its changing, do you have a link or something i could read on the subject? i find its interesting. thank you!
people who had business in quebec (important meeting, or important work) are at the hotel, they do not take the bridge. the fertility clinic where i go even pays for the room. there are companies that also pay a room for all the employees who are in lévis.
it's not a town planning affair, it's a temporary problem and people are able to manage
there weren't any at 8am this morning, but when i crossed at 1pm towards quebec it was in slow motion (accident according to google map) and it was quite steep towards lévis.
fascist!
i don't think so, i just didn't want you to be disappointed.
take all my posivotes my bunch of merry fellows! : d
temporary works, temporary solutions.
the rest are unsubstantiated conspiracy theories as laughable as those south of the border.
it's blocked like this all the time, and i would even tell you less than usual (the length of congestion is less than normal for monday morning)
are you on reddit while driving?
i hope you have correctly identified whether it is a rectal or oral thermometer!
ah, someone who shares my nickname.
* look flair *
hmmmm... 🤔
yes but zero link per 100,000 inhabitants for chicago yet !!!!
(since you seem to need a drawing the number of bridges per capita is a completely stupid metric when you change geography)
do you really think the quebec bridge is going to close? it is the only link that supports trains ...
> the world who live on an island with 5 times more links per capita can close their eyes.
are you talking about the world who will pay for the caq's big hole?
did you leave from st-georges your guy?
my only problem with the tunnel is the price. the champlain bridge ended up costing double, at 4 billion. i can't imagine a 10 billion project how it will end up costing ...
on the way out, it's a semi-joke.
still. i know people in the transport industry, and the timing of the announcement of the 3rd link, the cancellation of one in two boats crossing quebec-lévis and the work to be redone on the bridge deck are not a factor. such an eccentric coincidence. ;)
to be a conspirator is to doubt science and data. the 3rd link is not based on any science, so doubting the 3rd link is not conspiratorial.
apparently, it would unfortunately not be too far from reality, especially as regards the timing of the unveiling of the big tunnel ... 👀
i always high-vote a well-felt tabarnak when i see one.
what an inappropriate comment. shall we cancel it?
/s :d
dan savoie (the guy who plays patrice lemieux) is such a naturally comedic guy. he could say or do anything and i think i would find that funny.
where does the clip come from?
scuse moe big
wow that's really good haha where does it come from?
ouin, ye a little late to make the joke that these black balls but it comes from the same place
[like this?] (
i really feel it too !!
i don't know .. we should ask boucar and webster for their opinion.
finally! a woke that is assumed!
/ s ^ (you never know.)
there are many who say that his character ends up being redundant, but in the series i can assure you that we do not get bored.
he makes me laugh so much
patrice lemieux 24/7
> patrice lemieux 24/7
eh?
what?
that?
thing?
what
what?
what are you talking about?
dafuq?
pardon?
the grail of tabarnak.
a gaming masterclass.
boucar and webster are not at all in the same school of thought!
he doesn't see life like you do.
yeah, beh, it's like just your opinion man.
what is missing in our universe is a version of big lebowski dubbed in québ, like slap shot.
"so fuck your eyes danny, you're next to the track"
you just made me realize that i really need this.
do we have a video editor in the room? i have a slight french avcent so i can play donny's voice.
wow, mets-en! fuckin' a, dude.
[  
/u/commenter/u/tijosconnaissant
heille, dude, what is a pederast?
a clandestine version? i would be willing to spend some free time on this as a translator.
that's what happens when you push a stranger in larry's ass!
i embark as a translator and interpreter!
nobody gets it with jesus!
that's what happens when you meet a stranger in the alps.
listening to films in french with subtitles. read books starting with children's books with simple vocabulary, and listen to music from quebec. and above all, come and live here and chat with people!
good learning!
watch movies in french with subtitles, read books starting with kid books with simple vocabulary, and listen to québécois music. most important, come live here and talk with people.
good luck!
from a maritimer living in québec, living in québec when your older is awesome.  
for movies/tv shows, check out [ici.tou.tv]( it's the french equivalent of cbc gem. the cultural industry in québec is honestly impressive compared to what i had grown up knowing in the roc (other than much music, it was pretty much american tv and american music that i was being fed)
on [tou.tv]( i'd recommend to check out these shows:
\ - * black series * and * that's how i love you *. both funny, original and fun to watch.
\- *fragile*. very original drama mini series
\- *infoman*. like the rick mercer report, but québécois to the bone. if you like satire political shows, this one is honestly great.
\- you probably know of *denis villeneuve* (arrival, blade runner 2049). check out movies that kicked off his career like *polytechnique* (a film on a horrible school massacre that marked québec in 1989) and *incendies* (absolutely incredible, but rough movie to watch)
for some music:
\- les *deuxluxes* \- great psychedelic garage rock (think the white stripes meets the beatles sgt pepper's lonely hearts club). they have english and french songs.
\- *safia nolin* \- modern folk rock artist. a well-respected young artist that prides herself in standing up against social norms, etc. amazing voice.
\- *alexandra strélisksi* \- a neo-classical composer/pianist. in the same vein, you can also check out *patrick watson* and *jean-michel blais*.
\- *caravane* \- some good rock music, all in french. passionate group of artists in québec city
\- *fuudge* \- montreal stoner/grunge and psychedelic-inspired rock band. if that's not your thing, they recently did [a unplugged show with the quartet lunes]( which was beautifully done. although no longer available, i'm sure it will be in video or audio soon.
\- *richard desjardins* and his album *tu m'aimes tu?.* fucking great album and a quintessential quebec album. you won't meet a quebecer that doesn't know the song *le bon gars.* a good way to get acquainted with the accent from abitibi-témiscamingue. in the same vein (as in classic music from québec), there is *harmonium, robert charlebois* and *offenbach* that you can check out.
checking these out in spotify might lead you to other québec artists that are more your style of music.
slang words are hard to pick up just like this. but if you end up studying in montreal, you'll have to work to get involved in a french group of friends. it is very easy to live your life in english in montreal, i know from experience. absorbing french culture and language/slang won't really happen until you surround yourself with friends that are québécois.   
i now live in québec city and my life is pretty much entirely in french. 
cheers!
get a job as a dishwasher in a smallass town after high school and you’ll be fluent in just a few months. i have personally observed this miracle happen to more than one person. stay out of montreal. there really isn’t a substitute for actual immersion.
most of the basics have already been covered. i'd add that when conversing in french, don't be afraid to ask your interlocutor for proper use of grammar rules and vocabulary you're not sure about.
also the quebec version of the simpson would be something good to watch. they use tons of slang! if you have disney + you can watch the french canadian translation with subtitles in english.
i can't really teach you slang words but if you're a hockey fan i recommend watching habs games in french as it is a great way to learn words in a context you're already familiar with.
the best tricks are;  
- watch news in french but close caption them in english.  
- also applies to movies.  
- avoid learning from people who have thick accents, it makes it harder to understand when they speak (i include myself as i'm from edmundston and newbies speak terrible french at times. i'd add other qc regions but you'll notice them when they speak).  
- insist to speak french when frenchies switch to english by default when they hear your accent. as francophones, we love people trying to learn our way-too-hard to master language.  
hope it helps!
one of the most difficult thing for english speakers is the "qu" sound. in english it make a "kwuh" sound, but in french it a hard "k". best example is of course "québec" which in french should be pronounced "kay-bec" and not "kwuh-bec". another thing is the hard "r", but that is harder to explain in text.
my favorite meme slang work is "tokébakicitte" (toe-kay-bak-ee-sit) which kinda is the equivalent for "murica' ".
see this post:
>i would like someone to teach me some slang words or things i should pay attention to when listening to quebecois french.
slang is advanced french. start with the basics, they are the same everywhere.
you should consider the exchange program called explore once covid is over
you need to get yourself a french girlfriend. 
it's the best way to learn the language.
it's a great project!
a really good trick once you hit the intermediate level is to drop your french-english dictionary for a french language dictionary. initially this will be more frustrating (as you look up an unfamiliar word only to find another unfamiliar word... sometimes several times in a row), but it will help you transition from translating everything in your head to thinking in french.
well done for your openness and for your real canadianism. too bad you are in the minority among the english in canada.
bon cop bad cop , will teach the basics it’s on netflix still
do you watch hockey? i learned a lot of english by watching it in english, since i was already familiar with the game, i could absorb the new words from context more easily. i guess it would work with other sports too or shows/movies you are very familiar with. the québécois version of the simpsons is excellent for example.
also, i always recommend this video:
in french asteure! (asteur means "at this hour" or "this hour", meaning "now")
do you watch hockey? i learned english by watching hockey in english. as i'm used to the flow of the game, i was able to absorb new words more quickly with the context. i think it might work with other sports or even shows / movies that you are already familiar with. the quebec version of the simpsons is super good, for example.
also, i always recommend this video: (use the link above)
[deleted]
i don't know if these are a thing in the rest of canada, or if you have access to these, but as a student you should have access to student exchange programs (idk if its the actuall name) and basically what it does is that you switch with a student from another country and go to school in this country and learn their language and culture a bit more than you would if you stayed home. i think since quebec's first language is french you could technically go there instead of another country. also a lot more people are bilingual in quebec than before, so you shouldn't have problems with being understood. depending on where you wanna go in the region, people may or may not speak more english than french (for example, in montreal theres a lot more english speaking people than in quebec, and the accent is sligthly different) theres english schools in quebec as well as french schools, so if you don't want it to impact your learning you can go in an english school and still live in quebec and learn french.
i hope this was usefull to you, even tough i ain't the best in english.
(i'd like to traduce it in french but i'm too lazy)
if you like rap music, i would recommend [rymz]( and [manu militari]( you can take a look at the lyrics as you listen to the songs on [genius lyrics]( both use quebec slangs and have, in my opinion, deep lyrics at the same time.
good luck!
french shows and movies with french subtitles. 
+ 
read french books. start with short stories and move your way up to novels. do this everyday and you will learn. 
then you can start trying to speak with people.
once you get the basics of grammar and some vocabulary down try watching french youtubers with closed captions. youtube is super nice because you can slow it down to .5 speed and place all the syllables to the words.
+1 for the explore program as well. it was the most fun i had when i was in university.
good luck!
all you need to know
i highly recommend the [wandering french]( youtube channel. very well produced, quebec french language instruction videos. i'm a bilingual anglophone who has always lived in quebec, and the videos are spot on, sometimes hilarious.
get in some french conversation groups. see if you can do some language exchanges. can you do some sort or language immersion or exchange while you are in school? talk to your french teacher or guidance counselors. find out if there are some programs you can do in quebec this summer or maybe even do a semester in quebec. get in some sort of situation where you would be placed with a french speaking host family. you have several french radio stations in canada - listen to them. and listen to french podcasts. listen to the music. for songs you like - look for the lyrics online. then translate them and and also sing along. you’ll learn what the song means and help your accent. read french.
ooh that’s a good endeavour! really nice of you, i wish you the best of lucks!
good morning!
i was a language instructor in an immersion school at pei, i did activities on the expressions we use in quebec. you can come talk to me in my dms if you want me to share them with you!
i was a french monitor in an french immersion school in pei, and i made activities about some expressions that we use in québec. send me a dm if you'd like me to share them with you!
[mauril]( is an app designed by the government for learning french in canada.
if you are open to a zoom based class, there is an 8 week session offered by [ometz]( starting july 12th. it's $140 for the session and focused heavily on speaking (listening/talking). it's 2 nights a week and the instructor is québécois.
i would advise you to not be afraid to move there because you aren't fluent yet.  i came to quebec for school speaking very little french (basically none) but was surprised by how much i learned in just the first 2 semesters.  immersion helps a great deal, making french friends helps a great deal, and learning about (more importantly becoming interested in) the culture helps too.
edit: just remembered, [this]( podcast is great for learning french.  the guy speaks very clearly and explains all the expressions he uses.  it's not structured like a class, he talks about interesting topics in each episode (mostly about france and europe though, still a good resource to get oriented in the language)
if you want to start reading the news there is a really nice app called la presse + . it's formatted like a newspaper so you can select the subject you are more familiar with to read about that!
i am bilingual, my mother is anglophone, but she sent me to school in french and my friends were francophones. however, i spoke english most of the time with her and was not allowed to watch french tv until about 12 years old.
so, the short version of it is: speak french whenever you can with a friend or someone on the internet and watch french television. there's a metric ton of awesome french tv series on tou.tv .  good luck.
watch movies you already watched in english in french.
what kind of slang words would you like to learn? because we have a lot of them lol
keep a lookout for this program
edit:  this looks more promising
aren't there a lot of discord groups for gaming in french? i'd suggest that, the best way to learn is actually trying to speak it and being immersed in it
some people will encourage movies with subtitles.... but subtitles don't always match the text. instead, find a movie you know by heart and watched a hundred times as a kid. now listen to it in french.
you can also go to télé-québec to listen to shows! or on [tou.tv] (
thank you! 
you should start by reading children books and watching children tv shows (i suggest les argonautes or kaboom, toc toc toc, cornemuse, so you can also see what quebec children of our generation grew with). 
but watch tv in french a lot. and once you kinda understand french, start consuming francophone media (thomas gauthier, squeezie, rosalie lessard, etc...) 
good luck :)
as an anglo who started speaking and learning french at the same age as you, here are some tips
watching and appreciating the quebec version of things is the key to learning it faster, especially of you live outside of quebec.
load up your spotify with quebec artists, switch your netflix to french and watch french tv/listen to french broadcasts/podcasts.
video games are also a good way to help. my favorite was assassins creed unity, it takes place during the french revolution in paris. but the dubbing was done here in montreal with local voice artists.
the coolest thing about quebec culture (at least if you live in quebec) is that it's really close and all around you. where as i find in the roc we tend to look towards the us culturally.
also if you ever need to learn some everyday stuff vocabulary, and you like gaming, switch your games in french. it’s not specifically for quebecois, but a hairbrush will still be a hairbrush in france and in quebec, or a chair, etc. life simulation games obviously are better, like the sims. that’s how i broadened my vocabulary when learning english, didn’t even know what an oven was until then lol 
anyways if you ever have questions while learning feel free to pm
radio in french helps, particularly radio-canada. rc has a fairly high standard of language. there is no visual to distract you with the radio.
by the way, i am canadian too (outside quebec). you should rather say “i am anglo-canadian” to clarify.
hey do you like video games? theres a computer rpg called "disco elysium" that is fantastic, and you can swap between languages by pressing a button. i recommend it.
also, listening to talk radio in french is a great way as well.
we drop a lot of syllables. 
i am (i am) -> i am -> chu
tu es (you are) -> t'es (tay)
we use « on » (third person singular) instead of « nous » (first person plural) for most things. it means the same thing (we).
don’t listen to the french, there is a prononciation difference between « je t’aimerai» (i will love you) et « je t’aimerais » (i would love you).
you should check this website: [refold.la]( . it's a complete method to learn a language from scratch using mostly input. the website was created by mattvsjapan ([ he speaks about japanese and language learning in general. gook in your goal of learning french.
just watch " bon cop, bad cop " in french and you'll be ok.
i see you had a lot of reply and i'll make it short, as other has said; you should try a full immersion. try not to get to montreal if you want to learn fast, you have to get into a full french place. you're young, you could find someone who could host you for a year and it would set you with a solid base to learn even more once you get back to your place or anywhere depending on your futur plans!
there is a whole series on [this channel]( with bitsize french content for learning purposes. i hope among all the things people submitted you, you will find something that works
wanderingfrench on youtube.
i would recommend speaking with french-speaking friends(if you have any that speak french) to get experience in conversations. also, french media, tv shows, movies(put subtitles if you need them), and books are useful when learning a new languages.
also, it could be useful to learn the history of québec if you plan moving there later.(it's very interesting!)
but i have to warn you: sometimes(more common in montreal) if people feel that you struggle a bit with french, they might switch to english. continue in french, let them understand you are learning but you still want to speak in french to help you.(that part is your decision to make)
have fun learning!
duolingo is actually quite nice imo
til you guys are like afrikaners
boooooonnnnnsoir he's gone
it was too long ... but good deal of done !!!!
edit: we're not going to empty the lol
it's boring we will not know the end of the plan.
out of the loop, who is it?
look, i'm really not sure this is a good idea. cossette is an enlightened huluberlu we all agree but at least we could know the stupidity he was spreading in the public space. now not only do these measures risk galvanizing his followers (< <big tech nous censure parce qu'il a peur de la vérité>>) but in addition it will be much more difficult to identify his theories and the influence that he has among certain groups in society who are already, at the base, not very visible in public space. we are no longer in the 60s when cutting a character off the air made his broadcasting power almost obsolete. the internet is full of platforms that offer the same services, i really don't think that's going to change anything. the reality is that people who believe in conspiracy theories are first and foremost beings who no longer trust authority. consequently, seeking to hunt conspirators like witches is likely to fuel their paranoia and push them even further into delirium.</big>
in téka jdis ça lo
so much the better, they are clearly in psychological distress. i came across his last tweet just before he got banned:
trump didn't concede anything. failure is impossible, victory inevitable. if possible, share this webjournal on your facebook accounts. 👇
and you've got all the other morons behind going into theatrics of how trump is going to get everyone arrested by january 20, that this is all part of the plan. it's scary to read ...
trump is also permanently suspended lol. it will be calm on the sm!
underated post! thank you you just made my friday!
i know this song but with [different lyrics] (
what's the name of the meme or song, eh?
[deleted]
who?
...who?
was about time, sti.
excellent news =)
what did he do to get banned?
he was really crazy ... he could have written science fiction stuff, brave new world type
i understand that you are jubilant because you don't like it. but if we push the reflection a little further, do you really not mind that these web giants have absolute censorship power in society?
we live in dangerous times, and fools applaud.
you will find it less funny in 3 years when you are going to be chosen for a promotion and suddenly you will find yourself before a disciplinary board for having answered cossette once which means that you have links with the alt -right.
and if you think i'm exaggerating, go read up on mccarthyism. this is what is coming. if social media had banned him for what he does or says, he would have been banned for a long time. they did it to please the new leaders of the united states.
everyone loves censorship, until its fart in their face.
ahhh yes it's good !!!! yes! looks like you're touching each other while writing the comments, serious wtf?
it's crying about the freedom that the govs have been taking away from citizens for months, but big tech, no unrest. hypocrites :)
yay we censor those who think not like us
he's been around for a long time.
the cat always makes me laugh.
and i hate the cult around cats on this site.
[deleted]
yeah for real me neither i don't get tired
if you send me a donation i have a copy / s
nah man you don't understand. it's part of the plan.
the 5g is going to electrocute us all.
mass censorship is part of my cellar plan.
[deleted]
son of a member of the flq. conspiracy far-right conspiracy-eaters from father to son.
[deleted]
individually it's the crazy mononc that you can't wait to see at christmas but if you leave them a platform they'll end up being big enough for it to be a full-time paid job and for the algorithms to recommend them. [64%] ( of people who join extremist groups on facebook join because of an algorithm recommendation. google has suggested videos of flat earthers over 100 million times. flat earth is funny at worst, but when it's antivaxx or supremacists it's a lot less funny. we have been trying to put the "vaccines cause autism" toothpaste back in its tube for over 20 years.
it's not always easy to draw the line, but there is a difference between dissenting and making a career of spreading disinformation. as u / bestialman says, the ones that galvanize are probably already too far gone.
by banning him this free (and potentially paid) speaker, it pushes anyone still sane to understand that what this guy is saying has expressly made him lose his privilege to be on the platform.
that doesn't prevent anyone from physically figuring out how to listen to their nonsense.
but in our caveman brains, it's still the equivalent of pushing the fool out of the village who is always trying to prove that snakes are not really dangerous if we know how to do it, or else that saber-toothed tigers are not as problematic as the village chief suggests.
you can go and see him where he lives, but you have no choice but to understand that he is no longer accepted in this tribe.
poor little poop
the conspirators are crippled by the changing wind and the ambient temperature. might as well reduce its audience, there is nothing that will change what its followers believe.
no platform is due to them, no microphone needs to be given to them, light is not the best disinfectant, they have no right to benefit from the legitimacy of mainstream platforms to boost their importance, which they rot in the shadows and die there.
it's like passing the mope: you clean all the clearly visible places regularly, and once in a while you move the fridge to go and check the evolution of the grime below, but you don't let the grime spread evenly everywhere .
to support a little, i had never heard that name there and now i know it and i have done research to find out who it was. so taking it off advertises him at some point. certainly, i will not follow him but out of 10 people who did not know him, there are surely 1 or 2 who will join
100% agree with you. it's not by pushing off the beaten path that you will limit the damage. it's much easier to keep an eye on these free electrons on conventional platforms. the relatives of the illuminated who embark on his rantings are at least witnesses.
the facebook stat i saw this week: 60% of people who join conspiratorial facebook groups have been suggested by facebook.
the problem is, a lot of people who didn't know that conspirators existed stumbled upon them by chance because of algorithms that show you what someone likes around you.
that's why they want to ban conspiratorial stuff. this limits their ability to gather new members. those who are already stuck in it will go to a third party site and chaillet that facebook banns them and will crank themselves but for them, it is already too late
already the conspirators are not very good at research. it will be difficult for them to find themselves in the dark web.
i think you're right but that's not the main issue.
ye weird, he says bullshit, okay. but if we kick him out, that means we allowed ourselves to judge him and decide to ban him. that means that tomorrow, it may be you or me that will be banned based on different criteria. is this what we want?
someone had said i don't agree with you, and i will fight so you can keep talking.
personally, i would prefer to live in a society where everyone can say what they want, because many are very entertaining!
it's still special to believe that a loser like trump is interested in any of this.
it's just getting started, it's already talking about banning josh hawley who is supposedly the next trump / hitler if you believe the posts / commentaries on reddit, twitter and all the other propaganda machines.
if you're old enough, the origin of the meme is more like [that] (
ieva's polka
thanks my dude.
this is new for twitter.
i have a teacher friend who bought tintin in congo last year in order to start thinking in class. educate> burn.
i don't think these books help propagate stereotypes on the contrary.
i remember having read tintin in the congo, 20 years ago and more, being shocked. it didn't convince me that the people of black africa were different from the white westerners, rather it convinced me that the white westerners at the time were poorly educated.
it allowed me to understand the frustrations of other peoples, their motives for freeing themselves from these prejudices and becoming masters of their destiny.
the tintins in color that we have today are a little beer next to the first black and white versions.
very beautiful work by chapleau, it is striking.
lucky luke doesn't seem to care.
except that asterix is not even in the photo
i'll have to find the tintin book that is missing from my collection before it disappears completely
asterix has gone to find the druid's magic potion to save them from the stake!
brilliant drawing of chapleau, wow !!
it's crazy how i can 100% agree that burning those books was baseless and baseless, and at the same time finding this image to be a lot of persecution fetish.
yes yes, downvote me.
while walking on the web to read the articles and understand a little what is going on, and by stumbling upon the wikipedia article of "autodafé" one can read there in the recent events:
-january 2015: jihadist organization islamic state burns 2,000 pounds in mosul, iraq
and immediately after ...
-in 2019, a french-language school board in ontario, canada, burned 5,000 books for young people whose comments were deemed racist against the country's indigenous populations.
is it just me or is it painful? do these people really think they are progressives by making this kind of gesture? i am truly confused by this wave of "justice". ass way to say it but usually it's not the "bad guys" who do that? it's a "mixed bag" that's for sure, but don't we have a slightly smarter way of educating people instead of making gestures just to provoke? i would even say that it is regressive to do that.
i hear the sound of boots is it normal?
you have to educate yourself before you burn ...
'' in "tintin in america", the dialogue of real estate sharks with the indians is clearly dependent on these sharks. for the time (1932), this was a critical look at the behavior of the wasp with regard to this minority which has little equivalent in popular comics. ''
fraud
are you going to cancel ciné cadeaux too !? 😨
the second degree, voluntary or not, is really strong haha.
me: in the future we will have tanks that fly
life: the primate esti are no better than in 1500
but these canadians are crazy!
the fire won't catch on with obelix
it is not so big that there would not even be enough fat for the fire to last longer than an afternoon.
yeah, well ... that still does not exonerate hergé for all his racism and his misogyny. it was well known, besides the guy was a nazi.
esti de fail the same.
the priest with his sign is still hypocrite, given the contents of the bible ...
from?
it only remains to put 2-3 zoomers woke and that's it. the 'cancel culture' is out of control. as said / u / hamsteronshrooms, educate> burn.
well yes, the artists of the past were wack. it is important to know how to criticize. those who cry “cancel culture” are just not happy that their favorite artists are finally being held accountable for their actions.
ok folks, there are other things going on in this province, right? for me, i have already moved on
coudonc, you have a fixation on an event of a catholic organization in ontario.
edit: okay, i just saw that the journal de montreal has several articles on this subject.
i had a teacher at cegep who gave us a full course on tintin, he took the time to explain to us that what we saw in some of his comics was racist scrap for a while * but * that it is important to see where we come from to know where we want to go.
not afraid
surprised that she didn't end up on tva news like the story of the word negre last year.
it's brave ... about ten years ago, i read "côte-des-nègres" by mauricio segura out loud to my secondary 5 students in a multicultural neighborhood. it's an amazing book about the reality of young migrants and they loved it; they told me about it the rest of the school year. today? i wouldn't even dare to bring it to school.
who would have thought that a belgian would have a distorted view of the congo? / s
i grew up with this comic, having read it over and over again with the rest of the collection, at least once a year. my conception of africa and africans was not really influenced by tintin in congo. i did not have the taste either to dynamite rhinos or to trail a monkey to use its skin as a disguise it is tiring! kind of censorship that treats people like complete idiots who would only imitate what they see or read.
from memory tintin among the soviets it was still correct
that was never the point
mouaip.
since the time that he is no longer allowed to smoke, he is eager to breathe a little smoke!
he's way too cool to worry about that.
has already been burned in the first inquisition
shop second-hand stores if you can't find it at a bookseller; there is a ton of tintins and asterix.
no need, since obelix fell into the pot when he was little.
i also wonder why he does not swear the volley to everyone. maybe he sulks after being called fat.
you mean editing
i see it more as a kind of caricature, even if artistically it's not a caricature in the sense of style.
i upvoted you because i agree.
in fact, the kind of dumbfounded with glasses who wants to burn everything, she is not even indian, but franco / luxembourgeoise 🥴
to them oui
> the '' cancel culture '' is out of control.
lol 
it was a catholic school board that did that, we are far from the "radical left". it is the radical right that wants to look a lot too willing to self-flag without spending a cent.
obviously, for catholics, the first instinct ... is to burn something!
“move on” quickly as well, it is representative of our je me moi, the new flashes and other gossip that must occur quickly so that we do not get bored.
society of overconsumption of ideas.
burning books is pretty high on the list of symbolically terrible things.
nice
do we have the right to date?
haha sex
i just canceled my appointment, i can't break this
damn, i missed the 4.20%
niiiiiiiice
r/redditmoment
vac-breasts
nice
well
it sucks double!
as george takei would say
ohhhh myyyyy !!
noice
nice
nice
bravo! good work cisss!
theme song:
nice
it is head to tail at the turn of vaccination.
nice
nice
there are teachers in mcgill who tell young people not to be vaccinated ... at their own pace, we will never be out of the pandemic :(
nice
[removed]
nice
nice.
united states?
yes, pi jte fa bin big winks
just waiting for 420%, if you're the patient type
c don l’fun des trolls
nice
with your intp flair you made me doubt the sub on which this post there was
16/f/cali
we are french-speaking, you just have to wait for the 80.
nice
hehehe
brb, i'm calling gab roy.
so if i read between the lines, 39 / m / montreal (or 450)?
impossible. no teenager knows what asv stands for. i would say that you are around your forties: d
:-o
nice
noice
hooooo shiiiieieeeetttt
no worse near, but i still have some loose ends before reaching 39. worse yark 450, long live 514!
take me away for ten years, i'm not there yet!
nice
mice
nice
i laughed at him ... it looks like we don't all have the same sense of humor!
but
stu me or each beautiful pro has the same employee set:
a cashier who shouts orders
a grumpy cook
another cook a little thin with the greasy face.
the concept of the beautiful province: "must overflow". when you buy anything to take out, they put it in the bottom of the paper bag and fill the rest of the bag with fries to the brim. the small pin supposed to hold the fold of paper never holds for long and the brown paper slowly becomes more and more transparent because of the fat of the fries. same with the poutine in the aluminum bowl. they put so much in that the guy crushes with both hands the small round paper cardboard box that is supposed to hold the voluminous poutine inside. the folds of the aluminum bowl are probably certified by transport canada.
best poutine in a chain \ * \ * \ *
are you the only one who laughed like crazy for 30 seconds in front of that?
the fries cooked in prohibition oil, the viscous brown sauce with chunks of rat poop, the cheese that hangs out on the counter and has been liberally sprayed with postilions of anyone passing by, that's which gives the flavor "kick" of a champion's poutine.
\#saucebrunechunky
beautiful province ok little quebec lord sweet sky jesus
so, la belle province or bellepros?
the problem is that "la belle province" have lost a legal battle which meant that their name could not be protected. so all the dung started opening "belle province" everywhere to take advantage of their reputation. besides, there is one who discovered that people called it "belle pro" so he started his own franchise called "bellepros" whose name is protected.
so that you have the real restaurants "la belle province," the "bellepros" and the "la belle province" which are assholes. how do you know if you are in a real "la belle province?" first, the logo. note that there are some that are slobbery enough to steal the logo, so not always useful. second, the name. if it's called "la belle province the authentic" or "la belle province the original," it is also a fake.
but there is also the menu. if it contains these items, you are in a false:
* pizza
* grilled chicken sandwich
* trios / combos
* salads
* du shish taouk
so that's why opinions on "la belle province" diverge so much. some think of the real place, others of the fake and some of "bellepros."
the beautiful province and the best poutine in the same sentence, that's heresy.
i am an exterminator and i approve this message
the best argument against democracy has just been demonstrated
laval's, the dude on the mic thinks he's in the center bell,
two smokers to go! no onions!
one large fries and two moustard onions!!
quite an experience
it reminds me of a bougon joke: "we don't say croté, but spicy"
yeah, it's still room in the beautiful prov. but they make good poutine
food trip # 1 of my 5 years in montreal.
clean or not their streamed enter ez.
the quantity-price ratio cannot be beaten!
i don't know, there are several belle pro where it's not edible.
the last time i ate belle-province, i had diarrhea for 2 days.
question: what is the difference between la belle prov and le petit québec
is so bad
ashton > belle province
la belle pro remains to face victoria man.
the lean takes care of the burps and the fries. the grumpy plate.
the cooks always look like they got out of jail days before too
the cashier who shouts the orders, that gives me flashbacks of my experience as a cashier à la belle pro. we had a microphone to say the commands, until a cook decided he was bored and broke the microphone. it marked the beginning of my experience of shouting orders, really not pleasant with my little voice 😅 this cook there was a merge of the slightly skinny cook with the greasy face and the grumpy, 2 in 1!
i am okay. in my experience, no matter which belle pro (or "p'tit quebec") i go, it's exactly the same 3 people behind the counter.
missing the guy full of tattoos who vaguely resembles jesse james from monster garage but who is ben smatte
ditto for the cashier but the cooks at my local belle pro are super nice and efficient. i have never judged the level of facial lubrication. and super clean too
keep going, it's coming!
wait until you learn that some beautiful pro are making cabaret poutines. for ish $ 20 they fill you a cabaret with poutine. it takes 4-5 people to finish it
what is the big bullshit that it picked up so far away. it's a chain where consistency just doesn't exist. you can go to a beautiful pro and have good service, and the other one have the worst diahree of your life.
i confirm it to you, you are not alone
dude you many, please.
is that why she's so delicious?
little quebec ftw
wait, are there no kekchose - fries - liquor combos?
it was compared with another less common place.
the bar is low
i pulled on all sides
3rd ave.?
i think he cloned them!
it must be lizardmen who took the same disguise worse that fattens us with their poutine and their burp to send us to the slaughter later. nenon, chu not conspiratorial. 🤪
ok, a cabaret full of poutine is still trashy.
this must be paradise.
consistency or consistency? both apply, note.
do we get along that this is a popularity contest anyway? the world just voted for the ones they know the most.
for having worked in a nice pro, i would explain that to you by telling you that when someone opens a nice pro, they only have to buy the name of the company. once there, the owner puts the menu he wants, there are no real standards apart from having the name.
except once at the chalet where i had food poisoning after one of their poutine. otherwise it's 10/10.
in a true belle province, everything is à la carte. or at least it is on ubereats, it's been a while since i've been in person.
yes indeed, but the sub is clearly full of montrealers who have never tasted ashton in their life.
also, desolé pour mon anglais, i read french a lot better than written or spoken.
your pride rises when i see that plane there.
should be a mod for flight simulator
how does he manage to take off with such big balls?
... i am the only one who was reminded of the intro of "looping" that plane there?
[
======
... am i the only one thinking of the intro of "tailspin" cartoon when i see this plane?
[
are good, made me say "yipppp calisseeee 😱😮‍💨" twice.
does anyone know how many liters this kind of plane is capable of storing in a landing?
the highway to the danger zone
ride towards the danger zone
i don't know much about piloting apart from a cesna ride on eurodisney in 2001 and elite dangerous, but i tell myself that this kind of maneuver must be exhilarating for the pilot.
it must knock on a medium time when the hatch opens and the water hits the bottom of the tank. he must fly at 90 km / h minimum.
nice
with all the wildfires in california and elsewhere, bombardier's order book for the cl-415 must be well filled.
[removed]
tite tear at the corner of my eye
“ti feu tranquille…. tites bierettes…..ti buzz……. vive le québec yezzzir” -sir pathetik
the patents now belong to a bc company. yay / s
it would be disgusting with missions, imagine in multiplayer ...
xcq
no, i don't think so. not this time.
maybe this? the cl-415 can scoop up to 6,140 l
[deleted]
bombardier sold the program to viking air
[deleted]
and i want to thank you for that 400$ prosperity check i got when i was there and the klein government didn't know what to do with the money 😉
we are good in quebec to sell our flagships: |
nice! fs2020 now!
don't-no, the second link is the english version. you have to click on the first one for the french version.
it's a cl-415, not cl-215. the most obvious difference is the thinner engines since they are turbines, not piston engines. it is 6140l that can be transported. see the wiki for more info:
great, thank you !
good ol’ united states of canada if ever there was one
the job title was put in english so i wanted to be inclusive.
and i am 100% sure that the plane in the cartoon and the one in the video of the post look like two drops of water!
oops, sorry for the mistake!
to differentiate the two, there are also the finlet / stablet (several names possible) on the horizontal tail. these are also asymmetrical, pointing a little to the left. the cl-215 does not but the cl-415 does because it had stability problems. the cl-415 also has winglets.
> and i am 100% sure that the plane in the cartoon and the one in the video of the post look like two drops of water!
that i agree. the inspiration is clear. however, in the series it is a cargo plane and unlike all canadairs it has a double tail.
edith: the sea duck of the series is based according to wikipedia on the [fairchild c-119] ( although its nose bears no resemblance whatsoever.
you should also be wary because there was a retrofit kit which allowed the piston engines of the cl-215 to be replaced by the pw123 of the cl-415 (as well as most of the stability aids) which made it a cl-215t (for turboprop). so sometimes we think we see a cl-415 but we are wrong.
because the 2 motors turn in the same direction, the angle makes it possible to counteract the natural "torque" generated.
it's funny.
i saw your meme at the exact same time the emptying truck was passing on my street.
[not what i thought you were going to post] (
this man looks hungry.
[removed]
stay cool
poop bag
i'll take it.
i don't know who this denis coderre is, but at least i understand what all the texts say! the only things i needed to look up were 'tout' and 'marde'
i don't live in montreal. why does everyone hate coderre?
criss is quizz!
[deleted]
my. god.
what did this guy do?
just to find out, where can i buy it for cheap?
hmm. yes. interesting. *very* interesting.
i don't know french.
it's still funny that it's the same politically correct gang hooked on telling the world how to live who put themselves in the head of a pack of splits to collectively shit on the head of a guy who struggles to do all the dirty work of running a metropolis . i would imagine you bin in its place moer .... montreal managed by the editors of the sub r / montreal hahah wait. oh shit ca would be srm the best management ever
ideally, the truck will iron to pick up denis on november 6 with it.
this is his campaign bus.
he is hungry more than alain
if a volume does not appear in our archives, it is because it does not exist.
spark notes edition
all
shit
as you are not the first to ask the question and no one answered, i will try to give you * my * reasons for the montrealer who arrived when the mayor was gérald tremblay. it may vary for different people but voila.
when gérald tremblay and applebaum left municipal politics, the person who took over this party is denis coderre. the name of the party has changed and we are giving an illusion of renewal but [they are indeed the same people since tremblay and applebaum were present.] (
i checked for the 2021 version:
lionel perez, jean-marc gibeau, michel bissonnet, chantal rossi, alan desousa, aref salem, michèle d. biron, mario battista and lili-anne tremblay are still under the banner of ensemble montreal.
i'm not saying they're corrupt. on the other hand, if you do research in the news on some of these people, you will possibly be able to find something to question.
then there is what he did when he was mayor.
on the front page of / r / montreal currently, the ["rampage" of ile ste-hélène] ( for allow evenko to do shows there.
it was [against the wishes of the residents of the plateau boroughs by demolishing a sidewalk to restore parking.] ( montreal-rebuild-le-demi-trottoir-de-la-rue-de-brebeuf.php) the "saga" of the half-sidewalk. it was a project of the borough, but traders complained that the widening of a small piece of cycle path would take them out of the parking lot, so denis came to their rescue, defeating the borough.
some blame him on the expenses for the 375th anniversary of the city, among others but especially [the "granite benches" on mount royal.] ( 375th-de-montreal-coderre-defend-les-bancs-de-granite-sur-le-mont-royal)
when cyclists and pedestrians were killed, he did nothing but repeat the empty phrase "vision zero". when a cyclist died under a viaduct on st-denis, [the people from projet montréal had to mobilize to only remove the prohibitions on cyclists from riding on the sidewalk under the viaducts.] ( // www .journaldemontreal.com / 2014/04/29 / mort-dune-cycliste - des-viaducs-dangerous) finally the place where she died was secured this year with the rev. [we took away his ghost bike.] ( this-sunday-in-montreal)
it should not be forgotten either that he played a role in the prioritization of the rem. we are not extending the metro with coderre, we are even giving a public train line to investors so that they close it and transform it into a light metro. it will also have a very negative impact on a newly inaugurated second suburban train line.
then he placed philippe schnobb at the head of the stm, [and today denounces the management of the stm.] ( he doesn't want electric buses. he finds that the stm is spending too much.
in short, coderre is the stagnation and slow privatization of public transport.
and we come to [the whole history of formula e] ( )! he broke the laws for awarding contracts and "ran away" from the numbers.
as a citizen, i saw it more in the service of traders and big companies than of its citizens. he was always there for the big events and trying to "flash" montreal but it was always through evenko, formula e, his damn baseball, think big. lots of expensive appearances, but little content.
except that tse, sometimes as a citizen, you just wouldn't want to be killed crossing the street instead of having a formula e race. worse for that, he wasn't there right away.
in addition, he quit as soon as he lost his election. he left his party (which bore his name) and stopped "working" for montrealers. we can see that he did not have that at heart. he was there "to win", not to be leader of the opposition. he hasn't been there for 4 years and there, strangely, he comes back and does a takeover of the old party he left just in time for an election. will he leave him again if he loses again? it's super opportunistic.
it represents corruption, empty promises and the policies of union montreal. what matters to him is his ego. i understand that politicians do what politicians do, tongue in cheek and hard to keep promises, but he ... he ... he exceeds that, but by far!
edit: i had forgotten all the foolishness about pit bulls. denis coderre is the kind of politician to say "i think of the victims when i say that!" while accusing his opponents of playing politics at the expense of the victims. he is vile and contemptible.
edit2: he is also against [the public nautical park project in lachine] ( he wanted to find a "compromise" and a way to make the city and the public pay to renovate and keep the old marina.
> one of my posts was removed by a mod last week because it was a photo with the word "ass" in it.
eh? i don't see that in your history. what was the photo?
he will tell you after the elections
i really did not follow, but apart from formula e i have a hard time understanding why this sub hates him so much. if anyone could explain that would be great.
mr. puel did.
what is your goal?
you stink a little. but i love you.
could he even possibly take advantage of a large size sweater? he also seems to be quite cold.
there's just a bite to eat.
> some people blame him for the expenses for the 375th anniversary of the city, among others but especially [the "granite benches" on mount royal.] ( / 375th-de-montreal-coderre-defend-les-bancs-de-granite-sur-le-mont-royal)
as a montrealer (in the old days) this ego party pissed me off so much. 375 is a mustard number.
the people of quebec are jealous of us. what, are they having a party for their 400th? we need one too!
hey, the "mystery" (not) solved itself ...
he played the card of the "guy who changed" but the more time passes, the more he is the same trickster liar unable to admit his wrongs in a campaign where missteps seem to be the main theme.
no, he's jf provencal, the two are appendage dances on the other hand
..... *yes*?
me too jta love esti de montrealais splitting
you are 100% right. all of my apologies!
baguette
but ... you stink.
worse you triumph on linux. neeeeeerd!
you don't need to apologize, the two of them show off a lot anyway
hahahahhaha <3
have a good start to all my colleagues and to all students. in this age of relativism, i wish you as little tony as possible.
edith: source: tom gauld, the smoking theories department
when you start talking about clinical trials and you get the website osti ivermectinmeta thing: 😬
purgatory of science: people continually ask you questions about areas that you hardly or even know at all, but share the opinion that if you are a scientist you know all the sciences and no one listens to you when you try in vain to explain that being a biochemist does not mean having a deep knowledge of anatomy or drugs, and you try to find another person to answer their questions, but there is no one else. everyone is nice and has good intentions, they are just overestimating your abilities and just expecting too much of your knowledge.
bonus point if your specialty is one of the things that people think they "know" or understand intuitively because it makes people talk about their daily lives or these issues are talked about on a daily basis in the media.
aka "the host of fatiguing".
the pain is real.
oh my gods!
the student who knows your field more than you because he read a page in wikipedia.
in the list of reasons that made me leave university teaching, i had forgotten this one ...
have a good start to my colleagues and students :) congratulations to those who are going back to school! best decision ever.
and don't slack off too much on your philo lessons ...
hang in there.
the worst part is when tony is also a politician.
and this is his paradise. two birds with one stone!
me, who as zero understanding of french: i like your funny words, magic man
flashback of my childhood and developmental psychology lessons with the 40-year-old karen back to studies sitting forward who raises her hand and tries to contradict the teacher by commenting:
"as a mother, (insert an irrelevant anecdote related to her children)"
😂😂😂😂
jesus this is pain
what i love is that this meme doesn't attack anyone from a single position, it attacks all the puppets in their respective extreme who have absolutely no idea what they're talking about, whether pro-x or anti. -x, who go to google the first source that does their business and send it to you calling you a sheep / anti-science or whatever
have a good start prof. i wish you as few online lessons as possible.
[deleted]
criss, am you the only one to start just next week?
it is also valid in the humanities. my in-laws try all the time to prove to themselves that their most brilliant offspring has not joined up with a worthless, so that my doctorate on a super sharp subject from the beginning of the 17th century in france has everything in store for me. the time of questions about such a teutonic crusader who placed the first two stones of a tower in jerusalem in the 21st century or on the method of removing the horn from the feet of such a marquise imprisoned during the revolution.
this is professor calculus syndrome: people grew up with the image of the "scientist" who had a doctorate in scientific science and who could do anything in all sciences, so he thinks that in reality scientists are versions. real works of professor tournesol, the comte de champignac or géo trouvetout.
in reality, a scientist who invents a pill that makes alcohol undrinkable would probably not have the skills to design an atomic battery for a moon rocket ...
such
then they ask someone who spends his life hunched over a microscope to position himself without any nuances and in less than 13 seconds for or against (no more room for "it depends") public policy issues that have implications that no single human could fully grasp
the image of the scientist in a white lab coat, instrumentalised to serve partisan politics.
i feel you, i work in computers so necessarily i am able to repair a smart tv for some people.
there are many other tiring and more. the world who tries to be diagnosed with hash by the psycho teacher in front of everyone and who makes everyone uncomfortable. the girl who makes sure to say in every class that she has an tdah. the tiring guy who asks questions that have nothing to do with the matter. the osties of loser who complains about the syllabus or the workload. the little crackers who are still thinking of secondary school and who chatter in the back of the class. the good-for-nothing who come and ask you for your grades because they missed lessons. the sjw who asks the teacher to stop saying the word man when talking about humanity. the lazy people who constantly ask if reading is compulsory or if it is for the exam. the guy who rushes to the teacher's desk whenever there's a break or the end of class to ask more questions to look smart. i pass ... luckily returned to mastery all the shit has been filtered and it becomes more pleasant
aka maxime last
\> welcome the science hell, professor. this is tony. he read something about your domain of expertise online one day and will spend the eternity explaining it to you
thank you !
teacher at cegep, here. the re-entry with mask all the time inside for the students, except in the cafeteria. teachers can take off their masks when they teach in a lecture at more than 2 m from the students, but put them back on to walk around the classroom.
in the cafeteria, students can remove their masks only when they are seated eating. this is in theory. in practice, they take off their masks on the way home and give each other handshakes, big hugs, kisses ... the supervisor tries to maintain order but he cannot be everywhere at the same time.
> what is the watchword for the start of the school year?
something like that, but most of all, as little tony as possible.
still, if you could give us the method for the horn of the feet, i wouldn't say no.
i love that they don't listen to us when we are in our field of expertise and that they take us for an oracle on subjects about which we know nothing.
we must say, "science", "scientists" pi "experts", these are words that plug well to defend or attack a point that you know fuckall
you also forgot the guy who looks down on all his compatriots.
he also has the one who disputes all his corrections to try to raise his grades.
do you have quite a few at cégep? for me, it is the parents of the students who will do it in elementary school ...
i think you have to have a partnership relationship with the horn of the feet. because unlike the bazaar marquises of the suburbs who tell us about battery-powered mini-buffers at the same time as promises of soft feet, the horn wearer carried on intense activities needs his protection. so he will choose to slim it down to avoid filling his breeches with it, but he will never remove it entirely because that would tax his ambitions. i therefore invite him to sand it gently and regularly, to moisturize it to keep it supple, and finally to ennoble it with a nail file for services rendered.
this is because today's fields of expertise are too specialized and require a lot of justifications and definitions of concepts that appear basic to us when we are immersed in them but which are really foreign to others. eg. i worked on the history of the establishment of historical proof in the 16c. i could also probably write about the history of the history of establishing historical evidence in the 16th century. all this is explained in 100% transparent french but will talk about it on new year's eve to see.
do you mean the french student?
i buy him a beer and we laugh at the lazy people together
there's a lot more tony here.
r/whoosh
tk good start! we wish it would be simpler than the last ...
double woosh
oh my god it's windy here, i close the window.
the classic "i have something you'll see it's easy" and finally your thing is 15x more complicated than just learning it by heart.
'yes but no' exactly
as an english speaker this vid makes me laugh a lot. there are so many little things like that in the language that i am convinced that i will never master. oh well
it's easy, learn latin and greek and you will know why it does not respect the rules of french 😅
french is a lot by heart, like many languages elsewhere.
is a generational affair his problem? as my father is exactly the same, and about the same age!
hey bin no yes no, gad me sa bin no heille see no. listen to me jai a truc la. thats it la.
it's always been fun to help him do some renovations ... or help him do anything lol.
i know, it's a caricature. i love it bin martin matt!
i think of yvon deschamps and his "faith is when you believe in it, and le liver is when you are in pain!"
that’s it là. noice.
like japanese, chinese and many other languages: relatively easy when you grow up with it, but a nightmare when you try to learn it older.
the ordeal of dyslexics
i don't understand why you are talking about a rule. there is no rule for the etymology of these common names there. it's by heart that's all. we're just unlucky to have a lot of homonyms in french.
u/savevideobot
the source?
julie lebreton: 3 she's adorable
“english is easy, you pitch words and you make a sentence” - daddy justin trudeau
ah french spelling and grammar, thousands of hours wasted learning unnecessary invented rules.
me, my pet peeve, is the word museum, which should not have an 'e' after the acute accent.
i like the “that's it” in the middle… lol
he speaks with a quebecois accent, doesn't he?
my father was a teacher and unfortunately that was his technique.
hahaha sometimes it's so stupid that you remember the stupid thing.
peristalsis: 36-24-36: the sexiest move in the human body
rrns / rorénasy: the 4 literary movements of the 17th century (romanticism, realism, naturalism, symbolism)
ironically a lot of words in english come from french but don't have spelling rules to help pronunciation. in english you can recognize the word in writing, but it is difficult to know how to pronounce it without having already heard it.
after reading this poem, i was surprised to have succeeded in mastering the english language too let's say!
an extract:
"but be careful how you speak,
   say: gush, bush, steak, streak, break, bleak ,
previous, precious, fuchsia, via
recipe, pipe, studding-sail, choir;
   woven, oven, how and low,
   script, receipt, shoe, poem, toe."
[deleted]
when the académie de la langue française created the first dictionaries, they added all the etymological particles to make the written language more difficult to learn. their goal was to be able to separate those who had the time / money to learn all the exceptions and rules from those who didn't. they replaced the simple "filosofi" with "philosophy" to make learning the language more difficult.
interesting [ted talk] ( on the topic
a good video which explains all the evolution:
[nativlang - why french sounds so unlike other romance languages](
if you know the full etymology of all the words, it's easy to know lol
i am learning esperanto and it is quite the opposite. the advantage of an invented language is that the inventor does not add exceptions to the rules 😋
above all a matter of bad teachers. i consider both my parents to be intelligent, but my mother was excellent at explaining / popularizing the subject, while my father had neither the patience nor the technique to do it.
honestly, i internalized a lot of notions of french that i would be absolutely unable to explain in a coherent way. it's not easy to teach.
my dad is exactly the same too, baby boomer men are very "fake it till you make it".
are convinced that they always know what they are talking about lol.
[for reference] (
gen z: c ki y-vont désh'an?
i think all languages
### [view link] (
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
the beautiful discomforts.
sohcahtoa is hard to forget, for no apparent reason.
> rorénasy
i read "roarr! eh, nazi!" and so i discovered a rotten new mnemonic to remember something that i have absolutely nothing to do with. thank you!
connoisseur!
colonel ... why isn't that pronounced "colonel" ?!
though, thought, tough, through, thorough
ha yes, i'm not saying that english is easier. i'm still glad that all these stupid things in english are like “second nature” to me.
[deleted]
hahaha. yes, we also have words that are called * exactly the same, * with two different meanings and pronunciations. like lead and lead. lol
> add to that the regionalisms. gopher is not pronounced the same in eastern canada as it is in the west.
like in french, for one reason or another it's easier for me to understand the people of france than most quebecers ... i don't know why
edit: how do you pronounce gopher in the east?
sounds like a conspiracy theory all of it
interesting, i didn't know about it. thank you for sharing.
i'm still surprised, but not that much after all.
indeed, conservative spelling is one of the things that makes french more difficult to master.
if we know that philosophy and elephant are greek, it's normal to write these words with ph to make the sound f, come on!
as simple as knowing that you are making the connection with the silent but not aspirated hs, which are generally of germanic origin!
the other romance languages don't give a damn, but that's also what makes french uh ... special.
mojosa! why are you learning it, and how?
indeed.
even if i have often heard "if you are able to explain something to someone who does not know anything in the subject and that he understands, it is that you yourself have understood it well"
it's difficult to popularize.
i have no problem when it happens at the convenience store, it is expected legitimate behavior.
but the old / old criss who has his 6-inch thick brick of lotto tickets validated at the fast cash register of a grocery store on a friday at 5 p.m. deserves serious corporal punishment.
the worst part of this whole story, it's you who writes in comic sans ms…
i worked for 2 years in a dep and i packed the world when he did that, we had a little restaurant, so i invited them to sit at a table instead.
also the world who had plenty of lotto to validate or had a max lotto order for $ 500, i politely told them that i was going to manage the other customers before them and there was never nobody complaining about that,
just ask nicely and people get cooperative.
when you go to the convenience store, you're in a hurry, and you see an elderly person pulling out their stupid tax book.
me who works as a cashier and have to validate max old lotto bricks in the morning at 5am when everyone just wants to go to work ...
i bought my first 2 scratchers on monday, i looked like a real taouin to ask how it worked and i even asked if i scratched it on the spot or at our place… the cashier told me that i could scratch it live because nobody was there lol
the only exception is those who just scratch the code to validate it right away in my opinion.
are you part of our quebec culture?
boaf at the same time these people keep neighborhood convenience stores open. everyone near me has closed and i now pay a lot more for my cigarettes in gas station chain convenience stores.
signed denis bearded?
english translation?
unless you use * comic without * in your own.
kindness gets you nowhere. don't be nice. don't be mean.
is this quebec bashing?
people get so mad for nothing it's amazing
or who pays, with his remaining black cents the total of 35 piastre xd
idk at the dep at 7am in the morning when you try to renew your bus pass before being late for your lessons c so so in esti too. especially when it's 487 years old, they have all day.
a little moment of french television culture, [the old conspiracy] (
i find it sad. these people are often in dire need of attention and are completely overwhelmed by modern life.
i imagine that in their time, it was "normal" to spend as much time as possible at the cash register to validate your tickets. it was part of their "social activities".
they probably don't even realize that they are making those who are waiting angry. their time is very elastic, they can afford to wait.
it is a little done on purpose to put espelette pepper in the debate.
scratch whisperer
i'm a "ti-old" myself and i can assure you that these fools stress me out too.
lotteries are a voluntary tax for the thick.
grrrr !!!
there should be legal ticket validation hours for those reaching their golden years.
flashback of a cashier in my young days with people who came to scratch on the spot and who continued as if they were in a casino.
-won two dollars! give me another! this one was not good but maybe the other one, bewitch-so, another!
this is not the fun.
i take the bingo to have at least 10min of fun for my $ 2
apparently.
i encourage you to quit smoking.
if it was signed denis barbu, it would probably be like:
this world takes you camping a weekend of heavy rain you wake them up in the middle of the night and you pierce it with the tent's folding pole and you fill the tent with rocks; splash in the water
^ i believe
but if you scratch your scratch-off ticket at the counter in the corner store. die motherfucker!
it is the real police that conveys a feeling.
all the others are just plain like the terms of use of a bluetooth dishwasher.
sounds a lot like that, eh?
or who counts his money ticounne-tire at the counter to pay his $ 357.45 of junk made in china
it reminds me, the penny was discontinued in 2012. there are children of drinking age who have probably never used in their life!
tsss ! assert dominance
i agree, but as a cashier it goes better lol
i encourage you to mind your own business.
that hits! damn
"the motherfucker"
nicely translated.
i asked the question
i must still specify that i scratch at home ...
ok.
lol i never doubted it.
and you ? could you beat jf at arm wrestling?
we’d be lost without him.
with the tit bitch hahaha
ah it's him jf caron, he looks bigger in the picture
jf caron can go and get dressed.
he is the thinnest man i have ever seen
thanks jf
we don't deserve it pau
a / r / bossfight in the depths of montreal metro stations.
when the metro is late it's because jf is on a break
he looks like all the students who came from sherbrooke to study in montreal
super dangerous ... the kind of cellar that creates unnecessary delays
jean-françois caron is in tbkkkk it is not him the strongest ....
i play cosom with this guy, in addition to pushing the metro, he has quite a shot!
[i can beat a lot of people with a standoff.] (
before opening the link i thought i saw caron lol.
caron is jf's bitch ...
they pitch subways on top of each other.
i can beat a lot of people with an iron bar.
i can beat iron with people, as long as it's still hot
jeans? it's always hot, you can do the bat as much as you want
i know people called jean who beat people called jean with iron bars
[deleted]
yousskie
i made an [update] (
yéyou?
without forgetting the gender accord for the feminine, "oussékalé"!
tsétuyéyou
yeah?
as in the expression "oussékilé le p'tit bum?"
mo ltrouver
i'm looking for serge.
yeousti?
ousse minced steak?
do you have a search that allows you to find all these same posted here?
ouskyé
"stop there, i must see my boyfriend. it's been a long time since i saw him. it was gone, it wasn't there."
the shortest possible version with "skié or skisson" when followed by a name or a group of names. ex .: skied butter ?, do the others skis?
and the variant "you" as in: you the beautiful brother?
chabooooooot!
there is work to be done in this granny ....
levula
yé where?
missed opportunity with ourssékilé 😁
or minced steak ???
as someone learning french, is it appropriate to use both, or does it depend on the situation?
dioukala?
oussékilé is not to say '' where is he '', it is to say '' where is he? ''
i'm a bit off the loop. i've seen posts like this a few times. what is the meaning of the joke.
or feminine? from djyouskala?
where is the minced steak?
it's a beautiful language ...
new to french, is this some slang or that sort of thing?. can someone break it down like a 5yo? thanks in advance
ayou?
and another good from the lsj: arsoude = to come back
when are you arsoud?
oueskie
yousskilé, for me.
with his friends, who are also little bums.
there is not sharing the ch'min!
exactly. ouskié and not ouskié. it's a silent l.
thank you.
glad to see lots of people who also use "yoù" for where.
it deserves a long version and a separate post!
ye where?
déyouskilé?
'rock
sékié sarge?
i mean, depends with who ure talking to. if its a quebecer, take the second option. bot if its a french, better go whit the first. they would not understand otherwise.
the second panel is written as a photenic imitation of what a very "popular"/working class level of québécois language would sound like. you could even shorten it further to "ouskié" or "cékié".
lots of syllables get dropped in a popular register, depending on the regional accent.
akcétchums
and the neighbors start talking \ ~
yé t'aprah \ *
yes! no more winnie, like winnie the lobotomized, winnie who receives visitors, winnie the baron of the trains of 1850, winnie the sun king style etc.
su wax!
wax = "sears"
he remembers nothing: tldr
out of context. but can you talk about the motorcycle plates?
calvary. why is the saaq not able to make plates that fit the standard size of a motorcycle plate like other provinces?
and why do we have to pierce our plates ourselves to have them fitter?
come on.
what does it mean tldr. jimagine always the lord of the ring
*the
tl;pl
teleheleaire
z1000 on road 5?
enjoy 💀
the lord of da ring?
the
[in my camaro, i'll take you on all my summer paths, in my camaro, i'll take you to san-francisco ...] (
it is not false.
it's not even legal to pierce the plaque on top of that.
my suzuki gsxs1000 motorcycle, the harley and kawa that i had previously and my license plate have no size problem.
maybe your bike is the problem!
too long ; didn't read.
it's when someone writes a "wall of text", a too long affair with no paragraphs you don't want to read. tl; dr. too long; didn't read.
often people when they write long posts will also add a tl; dr version at the end of their post for those who don't want to read all this. kind of a little summary. fack c ca.
not sure what he meant but on the internet it means too long, didn't read.
imho, that doesn't mean anything on a vehicle plate.
meme "tl; dr: i remember" makes no sense
i was thinking the same! lol
it seems that everyone loves michelin! i like the metzlers better ... it's personal, i imagine!
the tires stick to the road in dry weather, excellent when the surface is wet and last between 10k and 14k km.
when i put that on my bike, i never wanted to try others.
the secret barrel.
it's rare that someone has a ticket for this. time that you see clearly the whole plate number is beautiful.
is your kawa a motocross bike? i'm asking the question because i'm waiting for my yam and wondering if it's worth ditching him?
i had to pierce my plate to put it on my kawasaki. weird how it's not constant in the same brand ...
>"wall of text"
the french use the term "pavé de texte", generally reduced simply to "pavé", which allows the reader to answer "pavé césar!" has a message like this.
tl; dr "fac a summary"
i have not tested them but i have heard a lot about this model. i had rosso 2, it sticks really well but it melts like ice cream in the sun. i had equipped myself with s22 during the winter. but i don't have the time to test this. i had to sell my motorcycle.
one of the best episodes.
it doesn't change the legality of that thing.
what you're saying is that even the police know it's stupid in the context of the too big quebec plates
put back your motocross. you will have the papers and it costs nothing per year. the only thing is you would need a mechanical inspection to ditch it later but it won't happen
old klr 65o 2 previous generations.
thank you, unfortunately for 20 years i am no longer in quebec apart from 2-3 months a year i am losing my french.
yeah that's not wrong!
right, but the police smell crazy because like you say, it's stupid. so you drill in the right places and you do not forget the license plate light and everything is correct.
the only ones who have trouble. it is those who put the plate vertically on the side of the wheel.
if i hit someone in chalet paths ... i never open my machine unless i am 100% sure there is no risk to others but you never know ... am i covered by the saaq? i have to cross chalet paths to go on my trails. and the number of side-by-side and atvs have exploded with covid ...
thanks for the reply btw.
off topic, but to my knowledge the license plate light is not mandatory for motorcycles, at least the last time i checked (a few years ago).
i don't know if the saaq covers off-road accidents. it's probably written on their site. for the trails take a mirror on the left, front and rear light as well as a speedometer. i thought it was for the track only but for the trails it's more complicated
unfortunately this is wrong.
my situation is complicated 😅 i mainly do off-road and enduro. sometimes the track for the technique but it's not my bread and butter as they say.
thank you again, i will check at the saaq.
one of the most beautiful hikes in quebec!
i did the zec des martres in the same area and it seems that there is an influx of tourists this summer. off-trail piling and rubbish on the trails. when a spot becomes more popular this is what happens. pick up you damn pigs.
a pleasant 5km of stairs but the view is so worth it. i remember my ankles were really tired on the way down!
i'm going to do it with my boyfriend soon (a weekend when it won't be +1000 degrees)! i personally would have gone this fall because i started training again only three weeks ago, but he insists we do it before that.
wish me good chan.
magnificent view, but i have always found it a pity that the dam spoils the landscape.
love this hike! brutal & so rewarding.
great! i would love to go back but since i'm in gatineau, it's no longer a weekend affair like when i was in quebec, it would be done but i don't want to spend so much time driving.
so instead i take a week and go to gaspé in september. next year i'll have a big trip to hautes-gorges + grands-jardins park + other places in saguenay-lac-st-jean.
beautiful, you are lucky!
it is true that it is beautiful! i haven't done it for a long time
i rode it last year. very very nice hike!
nice hike! which top of the three?
a small joint with this view is the dream
is this the kind of place i can go for a walk during the day and settle in with my hammock kit in the wood at night?
it really is an amazing place. i was there last week i would stay there again. it is a bit more difficult than it looks as a hike though. the fact that you still have almost half of the descent to do in the last 1.5 km of a hike of almost 12 km, it fits your knees quite a bit. i highly recommend trekking poles to avoid injury. if it's hot, it also takes a lot of water.
damn flute i went there but i was too lazy to do this trail and i missed it!
we're pulling tires down now
hey great, i went there today. good workout but this view is one of the best in eastern canada 👌👌
100% agree, it was the most difficult i have done so far too: o. have you ever done the mont mégantic? i wanted to go in 2-3 weeks
i remember that i got tired of counting the stairs after 300 a few. i was missing some before i started, and there were several after i stopped, and you have to do x2 to go there and back :)
good luck. what's the fun is that as you sweat your life on the way up and drink water ... your pack gets lighter.
good luck!
hiking in the fall is so much fun, your body is good heat transfer and you want to move, and you don't have to drag yourself 5 gallons of water. in the spring it can also be fun except that it is often muddy. from september until until there is snow its just perfect.
[is it better?] (
yeah, but it's still better than a coal-fired power station or the return to candlelight.
the post photo is top 1, but i did all 3. i have other photos in an album but fucking reddit is preventing me from sharing the 0ne \ [d \] rive link. anything
i'm not the pot type but seriously a good beer upstairs it feels good!
no, you must be back before 6:00 at night downstairs i think. you can go see the sepaq for more info
to add to what op mentioned: not only do you have to have exited the trail before a certain time, but after a certain time (around 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m., depending on the season), the sepaq blocks new starts in the trail, and a ranger goes upstairs to bring up the rear to make sure that ** everyone ** is back down to safety.
if the trail is done relatively well during the day, in the evening and at night it becomes very dangerous. and even during the day, there are regular interventions to look for people in it (ankle searches, people who overestimated themselves or who underestimated the trail, etc.).
having said that, i still recommend it to do at least once in your life, but get there early, it has become a hiker's highway since the pandemic;)
personally, the megantic mountain i find it average, i prefer the nearby mont saint-joseph, more beautiful view and more interesting hike, especially in winter!
yeah, she's very physical. i haven't done megantic yet, that's one of my goals this summer, with the scotora in the jacques-cartier.
i have just arrived from mont mégantic. i did mont saint-joseph next door too.
in the background, there is a path that makes three mountains (the loop of the three summits, saint-joseph, victoria and mégantic). but i find it to be a bit of a flat hike because you hit the first two in the first 8ish km of kind 16-18. after that the walk is long and not interesting (in my opinion) to reach the top of mont mégantic.
we did it in two pieces eventually because our campground was in the trail park. but it's not very difficult apart from the first climb of mount saint joseph
mégantic is much less brutal in my memory
as long as i'm in the area, i think i prefer mont gosford. mont ham is also great.
once you have passed the 2-3km staircase that leads ~~ to mordor ~~ to a big stream, the rest is not too bad :)
it's perfect!
that's good, but i think it would be even better like this: [ chauffage(
hahahaha thank you for the edit 🤣
it is not a dam to generate electricity.
at the same time, if your ms account is too identified with you, it would become a form of self-doxxing.
assemble an imgur album;)
exact
cool jcheck ca, thanks man
ah shit i don't doubt it
the scotora on the other hand was painful haha, plan on comfortable shoes / boots because it is quite rocky all along (big round pebbles)
would you recommend that i do the loop backwards in this case? start with mont mégantic and end with the other 2 summits?
the only steep part of mégantic is the last 100m before the flat top of the mountain, it is even a little more sloping there than the acropolis because you have to climb with your hands on large rocks (nothing expert level).
the 30km loop at gosford is on my list!
i have been told that mount gosford was poorly maintained. is it true?
25 years of practice with ms paint. i'm an artist.
are they baking marshmallows in there or what?
i'm curious, how would it be possible if all my photos contain only landscape and not me as such? and that the one drive link is only my album for x and nothing else
for once the scotora i did not find it so complicated! rocks but above all it's just that it is long. but no big drop like the acropolis.
a lab coat with short sleeves is the equivalent of half a condom.
am i the only person who thinks the second stock photo is a bit odd and very specific ...
o_o ... what were the odds that i ran into your meme that beats like the girl.
chfa my research
do your research
my favorite granny of the week!
des karens
well done, it's rare that a meme makes me laugh but you succeeded!
not too long not to poke the hemorrhoids
[cyber woman with corn, the classic og] (
done by your research gang, the proof state our brainwash
i did my research as the covidiots told me to do, i keep them up to date on youtube and on google. strangely, i came to the same conclusion as sane people, following the scientific consensus.
on the other hand, i laughed a lot while listening to cellars talking in their tanks, or reading wacky articles on 90s-style html sites. lots of things that don't fit together, unless you force yourself to one. mental gymnastics worthy of giving an aneurysm.
well done for discrediting critical thinking
when asking questions or questioning what you are told becomes synonymous with imbecility, it is disturbing as a "message"
it's crazy how we deprive ourselves of discussions. no need for my master's degree in microbiology to read the statistics of the cdc and understand that pfizer is a more potent nuisance than covid19 for our health system, at least in the short term according to a sample of 112,000 (2.79% hospitalizations, against the covid which is approximately 0.05% hospitalization, we are talking about 50 times more dangerous than the virus itself (level of hospital overload).
give yourself the chance to listen to something other than the advertising of the company seeking to make a profit; also listen to the doctors who suggest waiting for the traditional vaccine rather than playing russian roulette with gene therapy.
well yes, even on the bowl you can reload. please stop devaluing the questioning, aupire if people are wrong help them;) and consider that you may be wrong too. did you check? me more than 20 times already and i even allowed myself to change my opinion, wow! and you?
edit: i am pro vaccine, against pfizer (gene therapy).
not against vaccination, but i will wait to see the fate of the beta testers before thinking of taking this vaccine.
yet it's crazy what badly placed handles can do as damage on a bench.
it's like the actor in the 100 watt club who is a dentist who highly recommends crest to me.
you put a bucket and boom you can highly recommend.
the first or the second half?
hahahahaha
her hairstyle and face remind me of my cousin who recently potted anti-vaccine silliness on facebook!
r/wtfstockphotos
research research?
i think the reason you get downvoted is that you say help people who have gone on a bad run. too often it's people who no longer really hear reason and who are simply in their world where conspiracies exist everywhere ... i have already tried to have a real discussion with someone like that and that ' was honestly mind-numbing and annoying.
by beta-testers are you referring to the patients of the clinical trial?
i am in the same place. there are negative effects observed but that is not unexpected.
but already there are some to say that it does not prevent the virus of this propagated, to see useless in the face of new mutations.
so i'm in no rush.
i travel a lot i'm not afraid of vaccines.
i just buy sarraux with elastic on the wrist, they work really well. in addition you can pull your gloves up over the elastic so that there is no exposed bare skin.
the left part
what about her butt?
research on a vaccine for anti-vaccines
i think i'm downvoted because people don't care about more than one opinion; the one who thinks they are theirs. when you think you know, ignorance sets in, as much for the conspirators as for those who stand on the other extreme. i only want to have a few more people in the industry; who are apt to argue and remain reasonably skeptical.
comme aristotle l'a dit : "it is the mark of an educated mind to entertain an idea without accepting it".
in other words, we are poorly educated and will not manage to create more than a scenario. in psychology they recommend a minimum of 3: neutral, positive and negative. this is the best way to understand that in fact, we don't know anything.
anyway, it also looks like people haven't looked at the cdc stats on the pfizer. it is becoming evident that he is not our great savior, but who knows, he may be. me as i have already said, i am waiting for the traditional vaccine with the virus deactivated; we know that these are not a threat to our hospitals
no, in the minds of these people there has not been enough clinical trials and all the people who are vaccinated at the moment are guinea pigs.
works on newer known strains at least and decreases the severity of symptoms, it's still encouraging
it's the standard in the food industry, but in a lab i don't know if it can hurt if you ever need to remove it quickly following an accident. its walking you bin?
yes, these are my cousin's, i'm sure
i would need other angles to be sure.
is there a vaccine that cures anti-vax ?!
understanding that you don't understand anything is a good part of the dunning-kruger line. it takes some knowledge of the subject right off the bat, which most people don't really have. i agree with you about pfizer who wants to get rich, but the alternative right now is to keep waiting for a better option? a competitive company that releases its own vaccine to compete?
i believe that in any case, it is the utility solution that wins here; do more good for more people.
the threat to hospitals, from what i understand, is reaching maximum capacity and having to make choices about who to treat. taking the pfizer is still the choice that brings the least damage in this case (again in my opinion).
yeah that's shaping up to be good.
if it continues like this i will probably try to have it by ~ june-september ~
or 2023 if it continues at the speed or it goes live haha.
* puts the same of gen. grievous ah yes, the negotiator *
a great sage once said that bleach can be quite effective.
fa ta rechersh
no, the pfizer puts 2.8% of people in intensive care, while the covid is much less. it is a greater danger to patients than the virus itself. i invite you to go see these stats on cdc.gov.
if like everyone else you go crazy and "do t reload" you see it as stupidity (you want to inform on the gov site c fucking stupid let's not see a scientist with vials), you can wait until i return at home and that i link this when i have access to my pc.
i am so overwhelmed by this culture that encourages us not to research anything. literally the most ridiculous thing i have ever seen in my life. if you are able to validate information with a dozen different sources and by sources i mean doctors, virologists, nurses, microbiologists, cdc, masters graduates in several related fields, why not? well because we tell you that it's worth nothing, believe us, it's worth nothing. the opinion of politicians, on the other hand, is quality information.
they were talking about getting all canadians vaccinated around september, to see if that comes to fruition
listen, i'm on the cdc site and i'm looking, but you have to understand that it's not a culture that makes the world not do research, it's human nature to believe the first thing to reason with self. the echo chamber phenomenon is more valid than ever thanks to the fact that you can literally block what bothers you on the internet.
btw if you have the connection to the covid vaccines that put 2.8% of people in intensive care, i'm taking it. i want to read this.
glad that at least 1 person understands this phenomenon. industries certainly understand this right now and are benefiting from it.
we don't want to go beyond our comfort at the moment.
i found the stats the sage's friend was discussing and more:
link to the document on the cdc website (due to find anyway):
[  
french politician who discusses these figures: [ chauffage
viral video of a french infectious disease specialist, head of the infectious diseases department in his hospital: [ marge( 2fcfa2xi6sy & fbclid = iwar1bz0jt-abszeux0y7nidc8cfb4z9dwroenbs0eb6xysvxroz3ahvyohxo)
interesting to see that elsewhere we allow ourselves to discuss it, we have work to do!
yes, i just arrived home, apparently someone won the race: o super interesting videos wow!
and yes of course, people believe what they prefer to believe, for the benefit of those who want money ^ - ^ '
rendered there, their loss. your brother is going to find something else easy. it's a loose approach from the bar tho ...
there are both, good employers have a hard time attracting and keeping people too. this is a demographic trend that has been observed for several years.
the difference is that good employers for years have been working hard to be attractive and competitive. it's expensive and it doesn't always work like magic, but they adapt.
bad employers, especially in restaurants where the shortage is exacerbated by the departure of many people to other professions because of confinement ... they have not yet understood the game. they apply the recruiting and team management practices of the last century, and they complain that it could have worked.
we should go there as a gang with no tattoos and our beards unshaven for 3 months, just to shame them ...
we are looking for: a junior employee with the experience of a senior at the salary of an intern
"pu personne would work!"
don't forget that sometimes employers do not hire on purpose just to maximize profits.
r/antiwork
(sub in english, sorry)
it's the fault of the pcre and pcu they said! ah these programs are finished? we must find another culprit, quickly!
it doesn't remind you of a few years ago. i had applied to be a banquet server in a large hotel / convention center (still basic, serve food, minimum wage). i have a dec in tourism and experience in that. immediate response: insufficient studies, request to hold at least a bac.
i don't think they find a lot of high school graduates to do that.
in 2021 you have to be awfully disconnected from reality if you want to run a restaurant kitchen without a tattooed guy
we have the same birth rate as much of the west, with the same if not higher immigration rate but for some mysterious reason according to the neo-liberals have been in short supply of manpower and in the rest of the world. the west the world is just talking about the lack of jobs ...
older generations who hire don't understand that today most gen zs and millennials have more crazy tattoos and appearances. they're going to have to start giving a damn about it, otherwise they'll never hire anyone!
\> he replies that according to the butler: "he does not have the shape and the
look that we associate with the hotel "in reference to its weight and style
(his mustache and his tattoos).
coudonc, are you the hotel of abercrombie and fitch ??
what is cave about the tattoo is that unless you were foolish and have it high on your shoulders on your hand, it can easily be hidden by a long-sleeved shirt in addition to fitting in. level of "class" expected in a hotel.
and uh, i think it's illegal to deny an employee on the basis of weight unless it directly interferes with performance or work-related tasks.
it is still really pocket for the young, it is not easy to find a job with paspire salary, insurance, vacations and bonuses, practically impossible if you have no training or experience, in his case it was. a little slow, that's normal, you have to invest in your young people who want to work and train them in our hands to have competent and hard-working employees.
r/antiwork
we have known for several years that the population is aging, there are fewer young people to fill the positions. the boomers have had a lack of jobs, companies have been created on the left and on the right to create work, companies are growing. now that these employees are leaving for retirement, there are more jobs left than workers. we are moving towards a labor reform where employees will come out on top without the help of unions. the last generations cry out of jealousy because we ask for better wages and conditions which they often could not have seen the mentality 《you have a 40h / week job you keep it because it's worth gold》 despite the salary and conditions offered.
true.
our capitalist pigs, with regard to the workforce, only believe in their gospel of supply and demand when it is to their advantage (as has been the case for a long time). suddenly, this notion that was once so dear to them becomes obsolete when it turns to the advantage of the workers.
afterwards, they talk to us about entity (beautiful projection!) and serve us blind and completely stupid platitudes like "the young people wanna work".
they are hardened sociopaths who do not know how to deal with the erosion of their power over the people they are accustomed to exploiting for their own abject benefit.
sorry for your brother.
tell him to reapply with his second last name, and this time to keep his mask on at all times and wear long sleeves
you have to be careful not to put everything in one basket. some employer complains yes, but it's not because of the retention.
several companies have incredible growth potential, on the other hand, this is hampered by the lack of qualified labor.
for example, the company where i work has a much higher than average retention rate! that is to say about 10% (vs the rest of the industry at about 40%) it is still curbing to grow currently. we have several open positions and receive at most 1-2 cv per week maximum. half of the cvs received do not have the required qualifications for the position. it's not vargous!
it is not true that employers in general have bad practices. that does not mean that certain sectors did not run after it, however.
also, when talking to a recruiting professional, she was flabbergasted to realize that even for senior director and manager positions, interviews are "ghosted". this is unheard of.
it is for these reasons among others that i believe that your point of view should be more nuanced than that. i find it really shit for your brother! it must have been really frustrating to go through this situation. i don't think we should blame all the entrepreneurs and managers in quebec for your brother's isolated case.
i agree with you that this particular industry has not been able to evolve bin bin!
after 30 in the industry, i can say that the world doesn't quit their jobs, they quit their bosses.
tell yourself these stories are everywhere.
a friend of mine created a method for testing pharma molecules. it bears his name. let's call the x method.
he finished his 2nd postdoc and saw “looking for a research engineer to apply method x bla-bla-bla”.
he is applying. interview "we are not interested in your profile because you are not an engineer". “but i created the technique”. “yes, but you are not an engineer”… .. top 3 company in the field.
my fiancee met the same pb. a spin off from our college wanted to sell / improve a method she developed during her thesis. 10 articles, 2 patents, several awards etc. my fiancee therefore applied for the research engineer position that this start-up offered. “your profile does not indicate that you are good at improving the technique”… .. well, she has since closed and it is my fiancée's new company that markets the product, and she is the project manager on it.
but still ….
and i'm not telling you about my setbacks.
exactly. if wages go up there and start treating employees better, the "shortage" would be solved within a day.
r/antiwork
i have noticed that employers are doing a lot of hard work this summer
i myself took the steps to go into the automotive sector to change a little in the field of logistics and transport. i have a small background in bodywork as well as a certification in automotive aesthetics and "an asset" in wrap.
i applied as an aesthetic technician for a small company that takes care of doing the job for a bigger dealership. the boss was offering me $ 16 an hour. i accepted to gain some experience, but had to do it part-time with my other job paying almost double. i told the boss to show him that i was serious, but he used me as a carwash attendant with students who knew absolutely nothing about cars and aesthetics.
then i applied as a manager in an aesthetics department. it was a little easier to use my management experience for a position like this. i went back there for a second interview. he was ready to hire me, but after discussing salary, he refused to go higher than $ 20
i don't think i need to explain myself further.
desjardins too. tl; dr; each fund is managed differently, those in the countryside are generally okay, but those in the cities have made fun of the small staff for too long and there are a lot of people.
long version: at desjardins it works step by step. if you haven't studied finance to get a higher specialist position, you start at the lowest level at the cashier position. it's the 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. jobs where we handle basic operations - five hours a day paying hydro bills, exchanging government checks and replacing lost debit cards. thursdays it's like 7 p.m. but it's usually dead from 4 p.m.
there's the same technical aspect! you have to learn the procedures, how the software works and the codes of ethics. it's still a good financial institution, so don't do anything with the world's money. so it involves solid and ongoing training (because they are constantly updating some video training to adjust and react to comments from the world).
this is where it gets fun. desjardins do not directly hire their cashiers 90% of the time. they go through employment agencies. the majority of job offers at desjardins that we find are not directly for desjardins but for an employment agency and the offer will hide it as much as possible. it also means that the cashier staff at desjardins are mostly from the relatively new world and not dull. huguette who has been working there for 40 years, while the majority of the elderly clientele constantly complains about staff turnover.
what does being hired by an agency mean? a small list to summarize:
- it's the agency that trains you according to desj's standards so it's less trouble for the cash registers;
- as you are for the agency and not a fund in particular, you will work in several funds in your region. especially since the pandemic, we must meet as many needs as possible;
- if the cashier doesn't like you, they stop asking you for the schedule. no contract for them to break, easy goodbye.
in the majority of cases, the caisse will treat their staff well, even the agencies, and in the end the only difference is that the cashiers in the agency do not have access to the social benefits of the employees of the movement. it is especially the same in the countryside.
in the city? more often than not they treat you not fantastic, more like an easy to replace number. the job is sold as a gateway to a movement that employs a lot of people and where there are a lot of possibilities for advancement but the reality for a lot of people in an agency is to strive for years to make a super good job and to make a good impression on the fund managers to finally get into a fund and hope for job stability to be told that the fund is not hiring (but lack of staff) or to see the fund hire a young girl fresh out of high school who barely knows the job.
good.
so all of that describes the situation before the pandemic.
since last fall? oh, that's different. most agency cashiers have dropped the idea of cash registers after being fooled for a long time. you have people who have worked 3 years in an agency hoping for a little advancement, working two jobs to survive because it's not a 10 to 15 job that will cover all your expenses, which constantly applies online on available positions because desjardins constantly cries about lack of staff to be said no thank you afterwards.
faque there the agencies lack staff and barely manage to recruit. you have funds that hire as many as possible to fill the lack of staff but lots of people refuse and quit because they have spent years being fooled. it's funny especially for the more urban funds which had a pretentious attitude towards the agency employees and there it pays for advertising on billboards on the highway to recruit people (fuck off joliette).
tl; dr the cashiers have fooled too much thinking that they would never run out of manpower but oops a job too far from home where you make yourself feel like a dummy, it discourages the world.
ok i have such a similar experience, topo i am a 30-year-old woman in the region, i have a bachelor's degree, perfectly bilingual (post-secondary in english), good work experiences and excellent recommendations from my former employers, directors of internship, department director, name it. during the pandemic my domain planted solid so i retrained in a domain where my parents worked all my childhood, which requires rather obscure knowledge that no one has but i had it thanks to that, just light years away from my domain. 'study. it is for a quebec company with several branches, let's say in the sale of luxury goods, but a domain that is not badly exclusively male. all seem fine.
the business is that unfortunately i am not badly the stereotype of the pitoune, i have not asked for anything in life i do not train and i eat well normally but i naturally have the body of a 22-year-old escort even after 3 kids worse i look like i got a rack, but believe me it grew there on its own when i was 14. to top it all off, i'm tattooed from collarbones to ankles. in short, in 2020, everything is going well i work in my regional office with my 4 male colleagues aged 50 and over, everyone chiles zero problem, i have my sales objectives well right but i meet no one from the management or the others covid office requires.
2021 comes around i'm having a record winter because i'm younger and i take more shifts than my colleagues and it suits everyone to do a little less also we start to trade people have less fear worse begins to descend more often to the office of the region, the owner and his wife, and their right arm who is my age. i am still in the top 3 saleswoman, but there it starts: they start to impose on me a mustard uniform, like a polo shirt, give me 2 worse if i do not wear them i make me return home. remember i am the only woman and there i am wearing polo shirts like my 50-60 year old gentlemen. i manage to negotiate for myself jackets and shirts that look like they accept on condition that i pay out of pocket. i find it cave but i do it because i do not want to show my face dressed all the way to sell \ * luxury goods \ * worse i put back my working wardrobe which is easily worth a 20k that i can wear (because obvi i will not wear a custom designer dress to bring my children to eat a cone). yes i am largely in the 6 figures but still, it is a bit of a dull vs. when i saw no one.
in the first office party, returned to my 2nd year, the owner's wife, who has no role in the business, asks me in front of everyone to go and change because she finds my shorts too short. i'm wearing the same shorts as the 65-year-old secretary, golf shorts that fit with her ugly polo shirt. i haven't returned. no one said anything to the secretary though.
in short, it will remain the same the rest of the year, passive-aggressive post-its from the assistant to die to my regional superior that he doesn't like my laundry even if it's part of the pieces they approved but which calls me by my nickname and talks to me in the parking lot, the owner who gets up one morning with 1 week's notice and who takes me off every saturday off in the month of my 30th birthday (off season in the company in more) as if i had not already booked trips, having to continue wearing their polo criss when it's 5 degrees outside.
my friend is the manager of a similar business which is right next door to where i worked, legit the same course. i was interested in one of their products, i wrote there, she replied, come see me tomorrow. i get there, the udder right away is how do you want a job? we have heard of toe, we offer you the same salary, better hours, more flexibility, insurance, possibility of advancement, we pay you so that you go and look for all the qualifications that you lack, wear what you want. nothing to squeal. i was flabergasted. 2 weeks later i was in a building next door. first month they paid me to go around and meet the world in the other branches, with the hotel and worst of all.
worse for my first employer, well they had to close some days since i was able to there because the gentlemen do not want to spend 6 days a week at 10 hours a day, they will not be able to take any vacation there. winter because i patched everything. they took away 50% of the commissions that were being delivered when i left but fuck them, they will go bankrupt in 5 years with the same attitude. i'll be there to watch their downfall. i left all their ugly screeching to them when i left, even though it was nobody there.
this is very stupid. i thought quebecers were more open than that. looks like luxury catering / hospitality is too inspired by france for better or for worse (and we're right in there)
my employer would be classified as good. no one has resigned in almost 2 years, and people seem relatively happy with their conditions. but i was also told that they have difficulty in hiring because they do not offer full time remote even after almost 2 years of full time remote because of the pandemic. weird.
the problem is also that the employees agree to work more to compensate for the shortage ... so the employers do not see the point of hiring
hey, you're talking about a joke, i have both arms fully tattooed and i have piercings all over my face and i am a childcare educator yet lol.
interesting
although that is true .... my god there really is a staff shortage in schools. the proof: the unqualified teacher who often arrives at her lessons 10 minutes late, has only given 2 evaluations since the beginning of the year, constantly lying to everyone and the principal who says; well there should not be too critical that there is no one to replace it. which is true because two teachers on sick leave (shoulder break) and paternity leave (known since the beginning of the year) are not replacing. their groups are subjected to other teachers or tes randomly without a guideline. no librarian, no recreation technician, no drug addiction worker, no nurse, no guidance technician, no speech therapist, no school organization secretary, 2 tes missing .... yeah. .. no shortage my ass.
i can not blame a place that sells an image and an atmosphere for not wanting to engage people who do not fit with the image and the atmosphere of the place. ldt is a doctor, he offers health services, nothing to do with it.
that said, not a fan of the restaurant business either. it's a tough industry where most of them go bankrupt ...
i really have the impression that the lack of employees is just the world of catering and tourist service. it's just front companies for students or young people who want to start.
real workers have no problems with their employer.
imagine the opposite case, your little brother is contacted again but he gives no news, does not respond to the offer. double standard.
ok so quebec is in need of a good employer because of an anecdote ...
100% leftist and false answer
no, there is also a shortage of quite normal employees. our demographics oblige, it just does not balance. there is not enough relief.
[deleted]
criss that your text is woke.
where have you been for the past 30 years?
good looking has always been a factor of discrimination in the public and the manager knows his customers
i worked at beaugarte, do you think the barmans or the barmaid were pichous? nope, especially not on tip stations that paid, at the time between $ 200 and $ 400 per evening.
it's no secret why guys like eric fontaine had been around for years, women liked him so much and he had a hell of a smile on you.
anyway, yes, it's unfair what's happening to your brother.
but no, come and do your karen on reddit for that ... i don't know man. your brother should try his hand elsewhere.
or well i should eg just eat a sneaker.
i just don't know, there is something that sounds entitled in your post that could be corrected by handling a few sentences with more tact, and eg, by not naming the place.
if we start to call out all the places that we have already applied and which have not taken us, for xyz reasons, we have not left the hostel.
if you want to talk about good looking and discrimination, well, that's another subject, and yes, we can talk about it, but under other premises - and - there are not only good sides to be pleasing to the eye.
as it is there, if it falls to the ears of the manager, it is the master bartender who is going crazy because of all that.
i have 0 problems seeing the world of catering crumble
if they don't want to evolve, so be it
i've never heard of a good employer who had retention issues. "good employer" being defined by employees and not by bosses, of course.
i have heard many times from companies that buy a ping pong table, but don't give any promotions or pay raises, advertise themselves as good employers, and have retention issues. that doesn't make them good employers.
in turn to "reinvent" themselves
there are too many restaurants anyway. isn't it in montreal where we find the most restaurants per capita in the west?
i don't have a tattoo but my beard is more than 3 months old, does that make up for it?
according to a vat survey, 86% of vacancies are below the median salary.
it is not very surprising then that they are not satisfied.
the classic move
you can make crissmeent more profits by going to find an employee who complements a team well
until they lose their essential staff due to bad luck or some foreseeable problem, cannot provide the service and are close to bankruptcy.
risk management: well known to these "excellent" businessmen / women.
politicians like that is the worst thing you can have. these people are not there for the ideas of their party, they are there for their ego quite simply
is she going to make me believe that she decided to get involved with the pcq for their ideas?
take people for suitcases.
i wrote a poem for her:
criss 
from
crazy
we're going to have duhaime at the lmao leaders' debate
she who is afraid for her life when she drives a kia!
there should be a by-election and let the riding choose if that is what it wants.
at the same time, when you go to swell the ranks of the pcq, no need to look after your credibility.
boomer gonna boom
i never heard a local politician sound as stupid as she did on radio-canada just before changing parties ...
claire samson's change of party is shameful.
the worst part of all this is that she technically becomes the parliamentary leader of the pcq and she is already talking about reopening the debate on abortion, which has been closed in quebec for decades ...
even though qc125 writes, dated june 17, that iberville only supports the conservatives at 5 ~ 5%.
since she arrived in the set she always gave me the impression that she was a narcissist, toxic, megalomaniac, attention deficit, disconnected, etc. person. a bad human from side to side.
what is the pcq?
ah yes i made a donation to a political party which is not mine but it is not a conflict of interest!
yeah white on black help his opponent is nothing right?
okay, but no need to advertise it either ...
the greatest favor we can do ourselves is that his name remains in oblivion (as it was before this story).
a politician who lies about her intentions, oh my god
duhaime seems very chill. i am not a guy who listens to the radio or wtv but i find it true in tlmep
op is jealous
i love how reddit thinks i’m french
[deleted]
i would be careful with this kind of thinking. i prefer a politician who has his own convictions and who doesn't blindly follow the party line. in this case it seems to be a case of "fuck you legault, you didn't put me in minister so i don't care." am going to ".
paying people with cryptocurrency is an innovative idea!
there you do not like that because it is a hard extreme right party led by a moron. ok, ok.
but let's say a deputy, he is a member of a party, and the party does something that he totally disapproves of, it's not good for the people of his riding that he represents, according to your logic, he can do nothing, he must stay there and continue to support the party? this is the reverse of the basic idea of parliament. we elect (even if we forget it) a deputy, who is a member of a party, not a party.
and it's clear that she's the type to accept suitcases ... with cash in it
the best is when mario dumont asked her about donating to the pcq while she was still at the caq, and said "it's normal to give to a political party but usually we don't have 2 parties. the same time". heavy silence of 30 seconds "well, i didn't give to the caq". heavy silence of 30 seconds. "ok....?!"
what prose 🤩
if you say crisse, that rhyme too
it is not won for him, see aussant in 2012 who was not invited (he was the only member of option nationale)
2022 will be legendary for quebec politics, the shit show will be historic.
with bernier's experience in the last elections, i think not.
he had been invited by the possibility of having deputies. pisses everyone off for 2 hours, without respecting the speaking time of others. elects 0 deputies.
do not think quebec elections will play the same game. yes he has a deputy now, but he is one who has a party switch. he will have to get one elected under the pcq banner before having an invitation,
our quebecois maxime bernier, it's going to be fun 😅
like it or not, who doesn't want that? one more voice that challenges the prime minister, that can not do wrong.
the problem is that people vote for a prime minister instead of a candidate. the problem is with the voters. the system is candidate based, not a presidential system
see, i'm like a middle way. what about fournier, for example, who left the pq caucus? voters did not vote for an independent and her departure directly impacted the pq. should he have had a partial in marie-victorin? i think that unfortunately events like these are the backlash of our so-called "stable" voting system. ex: i know that the voters of mercier probably voted for ghazal because she wears the colors of qs (it is almost certain, since it is a strong castle qs). the fact remains that she has all the legitimacy to cross the blue room to go to the pq side if she felt the need. first and foremost in our system, we vote for a deputy who belongs to a political party and not for a political party which presents a deputy.
but unless i'm mistaken, parties that have fewer than 10 members do not have the right to speak in question period unless the other parties agree to give it one?
perfect for a conservative party first.
conservative party of quebec, i'll let you imagine
the articles portray the story as if the problem was that she was giving money to a party that is anti-sanitary measures and not that she was giving to a party other than her own, quite funny.
do not mention problematic public figures ... good one
she didn't even represent herself in 2022.
on the other hand, those who voted for her did not vote for the conservative party, and she has just given duhaime access to parliament without any vote having been taken in this direction. it's a really crooked move.
you have to give her that, she's not a hypocrite.
you vote for a deputy who is part of a grouping of ideas most of the time. yes you vote for a person, but you have to take into account the ideas that this person represents.
it doesn't matter which party this mp joins that doesn't matter, that's why she's doing it that isn't noble and that's just for her politician ego.
she will say no. she will deny. she will denounce this accusation. she will cry out to be the victim of a smear campaign. she'll be insulted if people think that sort of thing.
in her hands, she will have the suitcases, full of overflowing cash, in the photo taken at her chalet ...
éric duhaime will finger the coffee that françois legault was offered by his brother-in-law, shouting about the conflict of interest and the lack of ethics of the pm.
françois legault will retire in a few years. éric duhaime will be the new head of the caq.
i know, i work hard!
sorry for the tone for example ...
mouin it's going to do a lot more listening ratings with duhaime and his, let's say, "original positions"
if i am not mistaken, it is the consortium of broadcasters which organizes the debates, not the dgeq. the latter also recognizes that it is a public affairs program and that it is not covered by the part of the law on electoral campaigns which mentions free air time for all leaders.
aussant had not been invited in 2012 despite having a seat and his injunction had been rejected.
mario dumont had gone even further in the 1990s, without success.
i don't see why broadcasters would change their rules to invite 1) an unelected leader and 2) whose candidate was not elected for the party ...
an 'independent' federal committee decided on the presence of the leaders during the last federal general election. it's different in quebec, with the media consortium. élections québec does not intervene in the process.
with the polls in the quebec city region, that wouldn't be so far-fetched, right? it is an option considered by voters anyway
i thought maxime bernier was our quebecois maxime bernier 😂😂😂.
maxime bernier is a real fool. duhaime just seems to pretend sometimes.
regular sausages with pure sauce, it does the job in criss at 4 am on the big boésson
personally, aston is the apple of poutine in quebec. it's far from the best and it's expensive, but they've managed to get the worlds to believe putin = aston.
crunch my reason for living in this moment.
the only time i went to poutineville i lost 5 years of life
when i pass through quebec, i take a detour to ashton's. judge me.
ashton attracts a lot of haste because it's so popular and people who aren't into popular stuff generally prefer to bash them, it's cooler and edgy. especially since it comes from quebec-town ... reason enough in itself for 50% of montrealers to hate it.
i'm pretty sure the haters speak very loudly and in absolute terms, but the silent majority are absolutely tripping over mini dulton sausages with the little holiday season toppings.
i'm ready to understand that it's not your favorite poutine but woooo, it's not true that it's the worst poutine of all time and it's disgusting. it is full of bad faith.
i find her fuckin good and comforting. especially with the big sausage criss. mmmh.
ps do not be offended by my tone, you should not take it at face value ... but ... it makes me emotional in tabarnack this subject.
i was at the ashton for the first time last weekend, as i was riding through quebec, and hey, i was a little disappointed, but happy to have tried it. on the other hand, in my heart, there is no poutine that beats that of ben la bedaine (in granby): p
poutineville is as over failure as that of ashton! fight me!
aston what is it? personally the best poutines i have eaten, in no particular order:
- morasse poutine, in rouyn (in the 90s, they became blah for a while).
- poutine from the viaduct in amos.
- ramona pizzeria, coin hochelaga / dickson a montreal.
- new system in montreal.
in general, a poutine does not need special to be good ... i eat a lot of fancy poutine, and i am always disappointed!
long live the canteens :)
i invite all the people of quebec to eat a poutine at gaston's and leave ashton aside.
hahaha! guilty down the line here!
i don't even know what poutineville is.
if it's like poutine planet, on the other hand, it must be good! (and now i taste like a general tao poutine, but i have soup for supper ...)
my god, orvene calisse. this will do the ashton bashing. all the poutines are too overhyped anyway.
you don't like it. it is correct. but from there to say that it is not edible criss of mustard ... you just have no relation, you just want to flatter your ego, to make intellectual crossage and to be a clique whore.
for several years now, i've only eaten poutine at independent snack bars. i have never found a single good poutine at the biggest chains.
voted ashton even though i've never been there because i hate poutineville chu you're the only one
seriously, the ashton bashing bandwagon makes me laugh ...
i have eaten at the snacks that poutine is supposedly insane .... i have eaten the ashton plenty of times too.
the reality is that nowhere near as bad as some claim.
my sissy, just sort of, but it's the right one!
the fries crush me i liked.
i don't have a city poutine in beauce but when i go up to qc i stop all of a sudden.
how the world may not like city poutine. you chose all of your poutine, made it there if you don't like it, you made ugly choices
i think the world just likes it to hate ashton. it's okay for poutine.
poutineville:
- big poutine
- julienne fries
- extra cheese curds
- regular sauce
this order from poutineville wherever i have been has always been good. i recommend that to french people who want to have a reference to compare poutines afterwards. it's not the best, but it's a good benchmark to compare with others.
well cooked fries with hot sauce expo mixture container larger.
poutine ville: blue dragon poutine and add some jalapeño.
un délice. but you will breath fire.
poutineville .... overpriced shit ... but ashton it's the same
poutine ville is excellent. best restaurant poutines i've eat
i don't have access to any of these fancy businesses, but patate rive-nord makes it a pretty good deal.
in quebec, it's at pierrot's the best, for my taste, on the other hand for the fast-food chain category, it's asthon which is by far the best.
ashton is like radio x, it's oil drain esti and there's just everyone in quebec who likes it.
lol
for real everyone with their certificates in poutinist studies from the university of quebec in région-ville, esti, that makes me laugh.
it's fries, brown sauce and cheese. get a fuckng grip.
after blackmailing me with ashton's praises for years of friends in quebec, me and my wife tried it the last time we went.
but it is that it is not edible to do business there!
seriously, i have never eaten poutine as cheap as at poutineville. you can't put grated cheese and call it a poutine.
i think i'm on the wrong side of canada for this
it's the return of the putin festival and i didn't know ??
any canteen> ashton
well, finally. i'm not the only one!
when my aunt took me to ashton, she told me it was the best poutine. i was rather disappointed. in my opinion, the costco poutine is one of the best.
put this com back if you love poutinevill
a pout 'cé as a spouse, when you have to be clean so that you can do the job, yé time to look elsewhere
pure sauce is a secret to the common man. but indeed, it does!
haha exactly the same experience i had 4 years ago
your analogy is good, because like in the apple debate, those who hate ashton are much more vocal and emotionally invested in their position than those who like ashton.
i like it ashton but i don't pretend it's the best poutine ever
i am hungry
i come from montreal and i know no one in that area who says shit about ashton. to my knowledge, it is the people of quebec who are saying bad things about ashton. the equivalent in montreal is la banquise, which is popular to trash on reddit. in both cases, they are really more than adequate poutines.
during the harsh winter, i go to aston. during the holidays, i get asked “do you want the christmas garnish?”
-how much does it cost?
-it's free.
are you telling me that you are going to add 12 pennies of holiday-colored vegetables for free, like biodegradable garlands on my poutine?
**yes**
this poutine reminds me of the christmas tree when i was young. green, red, bright, with a star at the top and hot potatoes in place of the plastic thorns. thanks aston.
it shocks me because the ingredients are of the highest quality !! their cheese supplier is bergeron in st-antoine-de-tily in lotbinière (so always fresh) and the fries are always fresh!
fuck yeah, ben's is the bomb. worse, they applied the toyota method to perfection. even with a line of 50-60 people, it never takes more than 10 minutes to order.
similarly, rumors were that it was an excellent poutine, but it was barely edible ...
on that, we agree. i don't understand the hard on on poutineville. honestly, i abstained from voting on this one, two clearly overrated poutineries.
it's a chain of fast food restaurants in quebec, in any case i only saw some there
chez kosta in val-d'or is my favorite in this city.
gaston if you're in st-roch / st-so / sjb, le pierrot if you're in limoilou.
+1 for gaston. never set foot in ashton's place after finding out.
not just hq, which deserves a mention, but the quebec delegation in new york as well, which has been working for a long time to make these negotiations possible. i mention it, because their work is important, but often done in the shadows.
modern quebec ladies and gentlemen.
we export clean energy
big win! bravo hydro!
i like hydro
ooooh. i like the mention that it would be the equivalent of cutting 44% of new york's automobile ghg emissions.
i dream of a quebec that gets richer with contracts like that, to provide green energy to americans.
like hydro quebec, which provides a large% of the government budget, so that we can improve our public services and all that.
\*nationalism intensifies\*
for your good energy, i choose jonat-hydro quebec
hoping that hydro can conclude other juicy contracts in the usa and canada. we have room for other dams, if necessary.
this is good news for all of us, as long as the profits do not all end up in the bonuses of the bosses of hydro quebec.
good news, kind of stuff that still shows that we could easily have money from elsewhere other than the rest of canada if we separated from them. we should relaunch the debate after the pandemic precisely to start fresh and clean up government systems.
yes! big win for quebec
it is this project.
[
with this contract and that of massachusetts, and considering the end of the contract with churchill falls, we are not going to start to run out of electricity there?
excellent!
pour citer tenacious d, that's fucking teamwork.
the qc-ma line at 1200 mw, the deal with ny at 1500 mw, 225 mw with vermont!
i wonder if this will bring new mega-construction site.
the thread on r / canada has been closed for no reason.
woohoo! good news!
it's very good, there is something for everyone
the states of new york and massachusetts which are very urban with a high energy demand will not have to spend on infrastructure and will be able to meet their carbon challenge more efficiently.
quebec is going to make a good cash flow, we just have to make sure not to privatize hydro
so proud! ⚜️ i'm gay for hq. the real beavers of canada!
holy shit finally good news. do good with all the shit we have right now.
quebec power !
congratulations to hydro-québec. never been for their bonuses, but they are certainly entitled to a bonus this time if it's an agreement that lasts for several years.
i'm afraid who prefers to sell electricity there because they make more money than selling it here to the inhabitants if hydro was to be privatized one day ..
excellent news. however, quebecers should rather benefit from a reduction in tariffs rather than the opposite. an outside firm should ensure that no corruption exists within hq.
if hq were bombardier, we would congratulate the news ...
we're looking for lice .... "are you going to pay less than them? why don't we pay less instead? are you going to ask us even more to freeze our asses in winter?"
come on guys ... it's a criss of good news, it's billions for one of the greenest energies in the world.
sage decision.
yesssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
inb4, new york pays less for its electricity than quebecers
at $ 0.00001 / kwh
ah nice! this means that electricity prices will drop and that the money earned will benefit the citizens of quebec and not fly away to the federal government and tax havens hearing again and again that it is alberta that makes us live even if it has never been factually the case! :)
/s
hydro-quebec is still subsidized by our taxes to make it profitable.
so if the project allows taxpayers to pay less in taxes or if the profit goes to fund public services, i have no problem with that. the profit must be shared collectively, not just go into the pockets of the highest officials.
then i know that the hertel- * new york * project has been decried by first nation communities. the installations go through their territories. i also hope that these have been consulted and that they will not be forgotten.
absolutely!
we should build an electricity pipeline to western canada, with this additional revenue we could even pay equalization.
yeeeeessssssss! the mines now !!
ironic because the play nonetheless denounces quite a bit the construction of dams and the surpluses that this generated. i found at the time that it lacked vision as a critic and as a matter of fact, we are happy to have these surpluses today to resell them!
i also like the part that talks about billions of dollars in revenue over 25 years :)
could quebec be green electricity for norway?
it will take us a lot more dams! we are already at the limit of services on certain winter days, and the more we go the more electricity we consume (electric cars, many more devices, we use more and more induction charging which is a big loss. electricity, etc ...). consumption in quebec will continue to skyrocket and if in addition we want to sell enough to become rich, we will have to produce really more than today!
imagine if we had nationalized all our natural resources.
hydromajority
b
bravo rebecca-sophie
we could take the 10 billion from the 3rd link to finance more
it could be, but the cool thing is that we already have more than we need, which makes a nice profit margin ...
considering that hydro-quebec gives almost 2.5 billion in profits, plus about a billion in taxes to the quebec government each year, i admit that i am not so afraid that the bonuses will siphon too much hahaha
i have never been a separatist but with this year's federal campaign i would vote yes in the next referendum!
my understanding with churchill falls is that newfoundland will not have the choice to renegotiate with quebec: they do not have the capacity to export all this electricity there elsewhere. hoping that muskratt falls will be a lesson that will kill this nationalism which had no reason to exist.
that was my question too
churchill falls is one of our biggest stations and it will only be 30% ours from 2040. add to that the fact that newfoundland has built a line all the way to nova scotia and i don't think so. that our surplus will hold for a long time to come.
“people speak beyond what they know with a confidence that is proportional to their incompetence. however, to know that one is incompetent, one must be competent. "
i will have this quote framed.
yes, but to say "i don't know", it gives less upvote.
you should never trust those who have the answer to everything and who lack nuances. yes i am talking to you, my former roommate who believes that the earth is flat, empty and contains a utopian world kept secret by the lizardmen.
this is amplified by the "echo chamber" effect of reddit with upvotes and downvotes.
you might as well have very "soft" comments, it is the one that flatters the general population of reddit in the best possible way. example:
comment a: removing the curfew just doesn't work. (50 upvotes)
comment b: in my personal experience, the curfew seems to decrease social contact. (-10 upvotes)
people might, by relying on upvotes / downvotes, that comment a is more credible than comment b.
we see it 100% on the sub. everyone knows exactly the impact of the curfew on the transmission of the virus, either it is useless or it changes everything!
i mean, there is ample room to debate the usefulness of the curfew without claiming to know the impact it has on the transmission of the virus.
opinions are so polarized here, it's more fun to come and discuss!
i read the book "death of expertise" a few months ago and i really hated the tone and how it discredited the knowledge that people could acquire in contexts other than academic. but in the end, it completely changed my view of the pandemic debates. it's such a complex problem, and we are all really not qualified to say what the solution is. and the fact that we cling to pseudo-experts who speak with authority, because they say things that support our opinions ...
the dunning-kruger effect in all its glory ...
it reminds me of the episode "majority rules" of the orville, where the facts are established based on a systematic vote, basically if there is a consensus on something it necessarily becomes the truth, regardless of the facts.
i love it, i don't know him but it makes me want to read his book!
we would get a probably similar result (or worse) if we questioned the sub on the effectiveness of the curfew.
edit: it's still funny how in the debate following my comment we can see all the accuracy of the words of the video.
another interesting phenomenon whose name i unfortunately forgot. in short, when the media or journalists talk about something that you are an expert on, you realize that they are a little or a lot off the track, or that they simplify or popularize too much. but when they talk about something that you are not an expert on you take what they say for cash.
every time we talk about my specialty on the news, for example, i'm always a seal, that's not all.
ultracrepidarianism is the bread and butter of several chroniclers in quebec who have an audience.
what would be the expression for a person like mathieu bock-côté who, without having consulted the list of his works, seems to have studied a subject in depth but which results in a biased, unqualified and unscientific vision?
i would also like to take the time to make a subtle comment to say that i already knew the dunning-kruger effect.
[  
(he talks about dunning and kruger in this interview on the same subject)
"no but you don't understand, i made 2-3 charts in excel so i know what i am talking about."
lol
oh boy, we're going to spend 6 months having all the thickets saying that if you don't agree with them it's dunning kruger. well done.
this effect is also known as the "dunning kruger effect". this research attempted to establish a correlation between a person's level of confidence and their level of expertise in a subject. it gives a graph like [this one] ( chrome-mobile & ie = utf-8 # imgrc = s11tyyubc9rrwm)
really interesting because we observe the same phenomenon during the current crisis. people who know nothing about it who believe they have the truth. in reality they are in the "stupidity peak". they are never going to get out of there since they don't bother to learn more about the subject.
if you are interested the wikipedia page of this study is very interesting!
what he's describing there is the dunning-kruger effect, mainly.
[
itt: people who are guilty of believing they know more than the experts act like nothing has happened
the origin of the word: 
it had been a long time since i had thought so intelligently while reading a post on r / quebec as well as the comments.
i add to my vocabulary in the same category as dunning-kruger.
yes, but also we have the monte carlo methods in which you ask the same question to 1 million (say) people and you take the means and that gives an answer that is not far from the truth.
for example, you ask the question: 'how far is the sun?'
there are people who will soberly estimate, a few who will know how to estimate me in the way we will arrive at the right answer. again, there are a lot of wrong answers for that ...
i'm sorry, my french is horrible, but i meant that ...
i have the impression that he is wrong and it's me who is right, nananana :)
will
... or a track to understand the plots
here is a new word for me
post it in r/canada
it's nice to see étienne klein on this sub. excellent popularizer.
sauce?
i love!
"the fundamental cause of the trouble in the modern world today is that the stupid are cocksure while the intelligent are full of doubt." - bertrand russell
aja a new word, which i like.
he's an excellent guest, serious. able to popularize and get his message across. i like the gentleness with which he is able to say that 80% of the world is in the field while simply encouraging common sense.
but when you cite the work of other researchers, is it considered the same? speaking without sources is an opinion. but talking with the history of science & new research, whether specialist or not, it still gives more credibility.
but it's not / r / france here ... just by the way.
but the french who fart higher than their hole is nothing new. rather, that's what he noticed.
edit: either there are a lot of french people here, or people don't have a sense of humor. lol
what is also important is that we must not forget that this is not a phenomenon that only affects others. we all have our "dunning-kruger" phenomenon out there, since we're all incompetent at most of the things we do.
our shortcuts work most of the time in our lives, but would not work if we applied them across the population.
it makes you think a little of the main peter.
seriously worth a tattoo.
we call it the dunning-kruger effect
i have the image of françois legault ...
it's not a derivation of "i know i don't know" from ... shit i forgot the philosopher ..
yeah hey he's just rephrasing what socrates said.
> all i know is that i don't know anything, while the others think they know what they don't know.
hmm, i don't know ...
maybe we give too much value to reactions, opinions, hearts and thumbs up
many times i go to my parents because they fall on the side of covid conspirators and that is their "intuition". when i sit with them, it also happens that i miss data that i sort of what i think is true without really knowing it. i'm not proud of it but i think that's exactly what the guest meant in the video. you're less credible when you try to debate a point but have to say "i don't know". at least you are for people who do not understand the importance of these words ...
it also gives less points at school.
it is not false
you got at least one from me.
yeah, but i respect a person much more who can admit she has no idea than an arrogant who has his head in his ass and thinks he knows everything
edith: typo
now i want to see the lord of the rings, complete version, with a quebec translation, à la slapshot.
"tabarnack ostia! they've got the little criss there and they're taking them to isengard!"
"hey, mononc 'gimli! tell us the story of when father glóin fought with a dragon"
"ah les p'ti, put you here there pi listen to me this: pere glóin was a *** real ***! when the dragon of bs came he fought very hard; but *** tabarnak ***, the dragon was the size *** of chateau frontenac *** * baptism *! you want to do the same !? huh !?
well, we told him "it's beautiful el 'dragon, take it our treasure, we will come back to hug you later". the dragon thought he was ben * smart, * facsimile he laughed at us, he replied:
"* oue yeah that's it *, the little dwarfs, describe before i eat you"
college they unclenched. father glóin was full of shit, they knew the dragon bs was way too big. but one day, father glóin met a wizard named glandalf and ...
gimli speaking in joual made my day.
whatever our opinion on covid, let's send a middle finger to the other parties who don't take us as seriously as we did with the last "erections" !!!
is that she made me laugh. thank you
b
onwé t'o gondor icit
\ * conspirator
i have friends in the clan of conspi blabla and others in the clan of ultra-pro-mesure blabla, it's still my friends and when we have a beer it's always like before.
fa cho
i'm not a french speaker, but how do you pronounce “hobbit” in french
"eille théo! breathe the fresh air, old crouton!"
uhhhhh, ehn? i'm out of the loop
legolas should have offered powder and little girls to gimli-françois
i wonder which morons to give awards for that.
gandalf entering the hobbit's house
> tabarnack, still lying down toé? are you sul bs esti? awaye, raise you, we'll take a walk.
edit: i like the idea that the summary of lotr is an old man and a dwarf with big feet who are going to take a walk.
in tolkien's mythology, the "english version" is explicitly a translation of the ancient languages spoken in his accounts, and as a linguist tolkien himself would likely be fascinated by a quebec translation of his work. that said, not all characters should crown every three words, as tolkien himself was careful to recognize the social differences in the language choices of his characters.
but the orcs? they would crown like sailors. "* it looks like meat is rev'nu ul menu, my crisses! *"
"a weeezard happens exactly when criss arrives"
big thick hobbit tabarnak! quessé you calisse. you are scraping meat!
in the meantime, you can go see the cockring community on youtube if you want. (chaste ears refrain)
c official. i want a quebecois version of lord of the rings, with coronations.
“you will not pass my côlisse” - gandalf el gris
here is a [taste] (
sauron suzanne sucks plottes
gandalf, old monkey criss, when are you retiring? to make room for the youngest
i would pay a lot of money for that.
> there is no calisse so that you pass by here!
gandalf vs. the balrog
lord of the rings version tom and his chums
we are launching a petition !!!
“yé or gandalf? i have to talk to him ”
isengoôor
as long as they could change the story, that would be funny.
worse my chainsaw!
same. it gave me high school flashbacks watching the cockring community with my friends crying with laughter
repeated erections
the
conspi, plot, 🤡, anyway got you
do you kids at the same frequency as us?
blablabla we chalice
hobbit
funny way of saying "i'm jealous :(", here's one just for you since you're doing well, please
edith: i even give a second so that you stop bawling
truly! whenever i see a meme with the same level as a kid who dropped out of secondary 2 in 1983, i downvote.
is the shire st-jerome?
i don't know, we would have to strike a balance between "translation of mel brooks films" and "folleries.com and parodies of harry potter".
~~ a walk ~~ a breath of fresh air
* "fuck the hobbits! fuck the hobbit wafers!" *
> in tolkien's mythology, the "english version" is explicitly a translation of the ancient languages spoken in his accounts, and as a linguist tolkien himself would probably be fascinated by a quebec translation of his work.
not sure! tolkien wrote the lord of the rings because he considered the english to have no mythology. arthurian legends were, according to him, too french.
he took care to encode a ton of racism in the work which is very explicit in his correspondence. for example, orcs, according to him, are mongols whom he considered to be violent subhumans.
the hobbits are the english.
so he might have liked, or he would have hated for racist reasons.
voiced by the bearded denis drolet, sébastien dubé.
* ^ with the voice of a dude who smokes 3 packets a day *
* shotgun the dwarf's anus! *
have you ever seen [the cockring community] ( it's very good
on dit your coach.
one day, someone is going to make a collection of these same ones in book format and it will be a best seller for the french who land in the plateau.
argh i'm trying to remove the little thread on my screen but it's in the picture! haha
> * matante aline, your bag is messy. *
personally i believe that this expression comes from the trade of carpenter-joiner, in the case where the wood cut is carried out precisely on the "notch", ie the mark in pencil indicating the place where to cut.
ti'guidou
not capab me that expression there. do you come from laval by any chance?
this one is perfect. sa'coche!
suacoche
in my top 5!
mezan
i shoot the coyote
bin raide
but your at the table
satchel? sa'coche!
what's funny is that for a while i thought that sua coche meant something just correct, ordinary limit because the expression normally is "above the check mark" 😅
it's just an innocent translation of "on the mark" when it comes to the little check mark to tick a box.
i’m laffing
please continue
we don't care about your bad luck memes. yes yes it sounds like that.
it depends where.
some say that, others don't. surprising, isn't it?
lol sorry: d
i don't like it either, i never heard that in quebec and i have already heard it too much in gatineau.
i also have a trauma to have had a joint shooter do a big job with us then there were really a lot of flaws at the end, i think it was another guy who had come blasted at the end who did that as quickly as possible then made big marks in the wall (like with the metal corner of the patent to sand), then i explain that to his boss who comes to us, then he takes me out "well let's see this sua coche! ". well yes you, from a distance it looks nice because it's all white but i don't want big marks on my wall which will appear 5 times more like a painted stroke. finally there was 1 hour to make corrections then it was a lot better.
"no, i don't want my bag. c sa'coche."
it's like "right on the mark" or "on the money". neither too much nor not enough. optimized. it was never "above the mark".
your memes are so much better!
someone who speaks the original laval shower dialect, do we have a definitive answer?
we do a little bit of trolling
haaaa that makes sense! is it funny
i am laval, the original is su'a coche, but it has evolved into its coche.
so it is really a question for the office of the language shower, see even of the laval academy!
it depends on which side of the 440 you are on.
[source](
the [complete series is now free] (
confession: i never listened to lcasr
my god that makes me want to catch up
cursed that the actors must have had a dark fun to shoot this.
* rear vile nymphoman! *
here is a perfect replica for people who do not respect the direction of the arrows in the grocery store.
there wasn't even the best bottle!
[
wo wo wo wo tapeu there, not too quickly the replicas in metaphors.
* furiously takes notes *
i just widened my range of naughty innuendo over a beat!
no need for antidepressants or sqdcs when you have access to the best moments of the heart has its reasons.
i was too young when it was on tv but it really made me want to watch the show.
[deleted]
i try not to laugh.
"your omelet is seasoned with a sprig of brad."
i lost.
thank you !!!!! i have a stomach ache !!! : d
i am a simple person. i see lcsr, i upvote.
there's nothing like a good alliteration to make the funny thing more funny
a classic !
and now i challenge you not to laugh while watching an hour-long compilation of all the bloopers.
one of my favorite quebecois shows lets go
u / savevideo
you just made my weekend
ahhhhhh thank you!
ish bad news to learn is not full of exams. lcasr's binge watch is tempting in criss
omg thannks
thanks man! a piece of quebec culture :)
thank you !
confession: i have them on dvd and have listened to them probably 1370 times.
was telling me the same thing
you have to listen to it.
the blooper available on youtube is even funnier than the series. i have watched it several times and each time i laugh so hard that i have a hard time breathing.
we must copulate!
"let me be your rascal spaniel on your sultry chair leg"
they are hard to remember though, it's worth coming back to once in a while
not just the best moments! there's the whole series on youtube
why not both?
i took up [the challenge] (
i would like to thank gaston lepage
could this be "lady's cramps" or "lady's itch", also known as "awakening the quiet volcano"?
the game of scrabble is impossible to resist
### [view link] (
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for savevideo) | [**donate**](  |  [**dmca**]( removal request for savevideo&message=
does this proposal strike you?
lolllll !!!!!!!
indeed! for my part, the one where élise guilbault mimics his adventures is in my top.
this exquisite nectar manages to shake my will of steel
i have already seen a sailboat at the oka marina called “okakivente” and i found it very funny
but a sign ... seen. no?
ok 30 sectors maximum. no relation to speed. so no speed limit.
sorry but it doesn't come close to okapulco's ankle.
criss i'm glad to see this. i was born there
just a bc guy passing through don’t mind me
just because of that bad pun i'm going to drive twice the speed allowed at this spot. even the police would say "yeah i would have done that"
i look forward to the day when the limit drops to 25 and then 20.
seriously put real limits, and give serious tickets to those who exceed it.
do not put 70s in areas where tlm runs naturally at 100-110 (look up the 85th percentile speed limit) in a safe way to give huge tickets to those who will go to 115-120 ... "ah but the limit is 70 you're crazy! "
a limit of 30 to pepper a ticket has a dude who rolls 62 in an area where naturally it rolls 50-55 ..
put 50, then give a big ticket to whoever rolls 55-60, but let the world roll at 45 safely in peace
is that hypocritical.
it's very funny indeed.
good day gôtô!
the owner of this sailboat probably thinks he is extremely funny, and he surely has teenage children who feel deeply humiliated every time they go to their father's boat.
"the speed limit" maybe?
[campaign official website] (
it's signage.
maximum 50 radar ... ah bin this one is good i had only one, i did not know that we had the right to have 50 ...
pérusse has everything for everything! 😅
is a district a sector? gang i think district 31 is illegal in oka.
it's just mause his liver.
that would be a good name for a cooperative of chicken coops in the region, that.
this is oka, not okanagan 😜
or they'll say to themselves: okay, reinforcements, we have a fin-fin driving too fast in a school zone.
areas of 30 are parks and schools. and you have no good reason to drive so fast in such areas. no one is after you so calm down your accelerator.
if you have tickets, you have only you to blame here.
poor ti-farts with a father who has a big boat.
signage, depending on the campaign site.
i hadn't thought about it.
> areas of 30 are parks and schools.
unfortunately this is no longer true.
there are plenty of places where it's 30 everywhere, for example lachine.
drive at 30 on a large 2-way boulevard, it's boring in the wafer
i have no traffic tickets on my driving record, ever, and i have had my license for 20 years. so stop assuming. i had no idea it was next to a park and a school, so my review was not for parks and schools. i am aware that there are children nearby.
if you read the rest of my comment, i'm talking more about places with ridiculous limits that are used to inflate tickets, it's 30 but we tolerate 40-45 the same ...
in montreal, it's 30 everywhere, in lots of streets, far from schools and parks, while it's been 50 years that it's 50 without any problem.
criss that you're pretentious.
if we looked at the lachine sector, which is on the montreal site (but the link is 10 meters long, funny pdf thank you), on the boulevards it's 50, 40 in the residential streets and 30 loan from parks and schools.
unless you're specifically talking about the boulevard that runs along the river, so a long series of parks?
basically, you cry because things have changed. it is not to issue tickets.
[
things are changing and the speed has dropped in residential areas. learn to adapt instead of being a mulberry head. (and we see you have no idea what pretentious means)
i think the city site has not been updated for a very long time.
it's been at least two years since it's 30 everywhere, then at least 5 years since they dropped to 40 everywhere.
the 50 has not existed for years.
there is no street in lachine with a speed of 40 or 50, it's 30 everywhere.
you can see the sign on 55th ave when you get back to lachine
then even if it says "unless otherwise specified" ... there is no
you act like moral superiority, you decide what i think, you pretend it's because i don't like things to change or that i'm speeding ...
you decide cquia in my head, while acting in a condescending way. and add it to you by saying that i do not know that pretentious means… criss that you are pretentious !!! you are the best and we suck not to like things that you like. ;)
basically it's not that things change but although i don't like how they change, i don't agree that these are positive changes.
simply difference of opinion
hmm, i see that they changed that for lachine in 2017. same thing for outremont and montreal-nord.
i think you see things that are not there. i have not made any assertion about what is going on in your head, i just put the speed limit in school zones and parks while you are wandering that it is to increase the tickets.
it's worrying dude, takes a little walk or whatever.
i too can say that i'm worried about your mental health, that doesn't make it more accurate. we're not talking about the same thing, there's no rambling, can i write what i want the subject's font to land?
"hey dude go play with your penis a little your clearly tense, go fuck, your clearly stressed, i'm worried about you"
a stand-up comedian who doesn't have a sense of humor. ironic.
if it worked like that, jean airoldi would be in trouble with the style font.
guy nantel is right, moreover i have just written to the spvm to denounce sting.
jo cormier, the comedian behind the police web page, should not expect this turnaround.
it's amazing that guy didn't mention he was a mensa member in his response.
yé well crinqué.
ostia that he is cringe sometimes
phew it's so embarrassing and cringe
imagine a cook who doesn't know the difference between aspartame and sugar
politics didn't do it 😂
nantel begins to escape it quite stiffly
nantel should be careful not to pretend to know the law. i am not even a lawyer and i know that does not apply when a reasonable person would have no reason to believe that these are real police services.
the guy is so heavy. the only positive point is that he self destroys his career.
lmao, but what about?
he's not touchy. / s
the guy goes crazy for a courtesy patrol, imagine for a real attack.
after that he must say that people are fragile
nantel is currently censoring all forms of criticism. the weapon pass between him and fred dubé shows a pitiful and intimidating nantel. the one with the web police shows an incoherent nantel who seeks to censor the world which does not think like him. sad derives from a never has been.
you dun goofed, consequences will never be the same
at the same time, since his vox-pop (very funny by the way) to laugh at the anti-vax, he must have received a good batch of crackpots which try to intimidate him. even if this is not the case here, i can understand that he is on edge.
surprising that he thought of contacting the spvm and not the sq without even knowing if the account is montreal. boomer moment i imagine.
that's sollllllleement boomer as an answer, we are not far from "i do not allow facebook to print my emails" in facebook bio
big boomer vibes right there.
the dude is pathetic.
guys, i think nantel responds in joke too
a well deserved r / wooosh. what a piss-vinegar.
you automatically lose when you write "have a nice day" twice because you are stressed.
another beautiful moment from nantel 
it seems in coderre
i feel like it's the reaction of a guy who gets hundreds of insults and threats a day, a tanned guy.
i don't really like his capsules linked to the release of his book, he definitely tries to stick his arguments to his interlocutors down their throats but, his arguments are not particularly bad. it is the method which is very .. guy nantel and which probably sunk his campaign at the pq.
yé easy to intimidate the guy. its next stop is probably the human rights commission. guy nantel vs the web police in the supreme court
and the spvm to answer "really dude?"
faque let's say that guy nantel sees a post from the bag of chips which refers to this exchange, will the official complaint materialize?
he doesn't even deserve to be called ham, it's an insult to the sacrifice of pigs. faque guy nantel is a toupie (the cheap version of a ham).
osti, i found what to say to the next 16-year-old little ass who passes disguised as a policeman on halloween
his answer was still very uncomfortable!
i love the idea. just a courtesy hello, like you're starting to abuse offenses.
it makes me think that i should uninvite the gogo dancer dress up as a policeman that i wanted to send him.
* very long sigh denoting a loss of hope *
he could at least have transmitted his complaint to the sq, if the guy is not in montreal asking what you want the spvm to do.
but let's see, it was so clear that she was a joke.
hahaha it's clearly a bait. he's sarcastic.
it is a well-known bullying technique to say to someone "hey by the way i heard people hate you".
[exhibit at @ 1:25. (let it roll for 30 seconds and you will see it happen crisp and clear. "some people want to take it out on you" that my friends is 100% bullying.] ( 86doxhkvb6c? t = 54)
it is a technique to intimidate but without being too direct.
was that the intention of the web police? i'm not sure, maybe, but ultimately it was a pocket-sized joke that deserves guy nantel imho's reaction.
he is used to ridiculing the populasse of émilie gamelin park, give him a chance!
shit, he's going to wear shorts when the fashion brigade arrives.
is it meta? the question arises ... i don't think so ... but hey
much boomer. such internet explorer. wow.
ah, that old conservative mononc from the quebec city shore that we had, a little hot, at the kwismas family party and who told us jokes that only made him laugh ...
did anyone have the same unhappy childhood as me?
imagine if the fake police officers from just for laughs cross paths with guy nantel.
does the original post still exist? or has it been blocked and erased?
nasty loser.
yikes
it was to climb quickly
boomer moment
for a cool-shit who spends his career making fun of the world, guy nantel is really a fragile little princess who doesn't like to be made fun of, even in a friendly manner.
besides trying to help him lmao
it's easy to make money grow.
you take a $ 5, write zeros after the 5, and now you have a $ 5,000 bill.
good luck @royalmoney
easy to make a fake credit card.
you take your own credit card, erase your name on it, and put in someone else's name.
good luck @visa
not how it works at all? afaik the qr code is not a link
we have just found the future minister responsible for innovation, science and economic development canada under a government of maxime bernier.
bernier really picks up all the best.
easy to get the ppc elected.
you take your ballot, you strike out all the names of the other candidates, you write maxime bernier instead, and you tick all the boxes.
good luck @electionscan_f
fortunately those who offer these "solutions" know nothing.
the code contains the identification information and the dose information received, signed with a private key.
to be declared valid, the reader application should confirm the full vaccination, display the name / date of birth for verification of an identity card and verified the signature with the public key (we do not yet have the details, but it's like that in europe).
any falsified qr code would therefore be invalid, because changing a single bit invalidates the signature. (this is also a problem in europe, often codes are indicated invalid because of a reading error, if the phone has a screen that is too low resolution or if a printed code has been folded for example)
worse éric barnabé, what are you going to do when you populate your personal page with your code trafficked at the sports cage, and when the guy looks at his application, he will see eric duhaime as being the person vaccinated ?!
in addition to being a little stupid, you understand nothing about technology ... sometimes it pays more to be silent.
* hackerman *
i'm starting to wonder if to be part of the ppc or pcq you need to have a few more chromosomes than the general population.
"personal page offered by your internet provider" wait what
easy to cheat, you assume you understand something you don't know anything about, you come up with a solution that is clearly doomed to failure and then you get caught. i said it's easy to cheat, then in terms of not getting caught, that's another question.
a chance that they are also cellars.
wow. okay, a qr code based system isn't perfectly foolproof, but that's nonsense.
there are possible vulnerabilities but especially at the level of reading devices in the case of malicious * dynamic * qr codes, not the other way around. this person seems really far from understanding the plausible angles of attack and it is surely all the better.
and to think that my father votes for them. ; (
can a lawyer tell me if this is legal? encourage people on the internet to cheat documents?
for having already had some exchanges with m barnabé on twitter, it is not the most inflated ball in the basket.
i imagine someone with liquid paper on their smartphone ...
the code is cryptographically signed, so it's impossible to create legitimate proof without the government's private key. the application will know whether the qr code is legitimate or not
i liked this one on another sub: people who talk about fake vaccine passport are the same who speak against immigrant without paper
even if it worked, the anti-vaxx guys just don't have friends smart enough to get vaccinated anyway, so this plan just fell apart.
hahaha the qr code is created with the government private key ~~ public ~~ precisely to prove its origin. good luck making it look legit when the check is done in the comic.
stop paying attention to these morons. misery.
this is not how the qr code works but for the ti-counes who would like to try their hand, it's a think about it.
well let's see, you take a 20 bill and a marker, you add a zero, and you have a 200 bill my boyfriend! who's the cellar?
in french it has another meaning, but in english this man is called a douche
this guy...
he's so the worst asshole in quebec who pops all the time on my twitter with solutions that are stupid or racist ...
easy to create a bogus political party.
you write a platform based on populist and proto-fascist ideas and wait for an osti troop of settlers to come forward as candidates.
good luck @ .electionscanada
yes, but my friends are not vaccinated either.
haha!
as nono as maxime last that one!
if id=false then <a<href=report to authority...
it's not code but we understand the idea ...
you still have to find a vaccinated friend who hasn't blocked you yet
ok, but where is the notion of private and public key?
take a picture of your friend's driver's license, print it out and get your license. good luck saaq.
but what a thick ahahahaha
you could also just go get vaccinated like a big boy who pees standing all alone osti cellar!
the only passport the ppc people need is the one from mongolia. (no offense to the true descendants of ghenkis khan)
oops the ppc
wicked moron.
it's going to be even simpler than that, if the place you're going doesn't verify that your qr code fits with an id card, you can use anyone's id card.
but made it, damn that people are giving trouble not to be vaccinated ....
but seriously i have been on this thread. the guy is not very smart haha
what a phenomenon. i don't know the character at all, i judge nothing other than the post in question
i think this is the mastermind behind the theft of $ 600m of crypto ....
i sent this to my gang at tva nouvelles and rad can.
if all goes well, it will pass at 10 p.m. tonight or tomorrow, in a more thorough report. the desk leader loves history.
eric ppc is going to eat his stockings in titi 😈😈😈😈
/ jcmyrand
as if akamai hadn't thought about it. what a gang of idiots the ppc and the pcq.
the qr code contains the textual information of your vaccination, not a url.
you don't need a fake qr code, it's a fake id card that matches the name of someone else's qr code but with your photo. not badly less complicated.
the tweet is still there and it's laughter festival in esti in the comments. it could be a double feedback from feet to mouth as well, haha !!
"the hacker known as 4chan" has better watch out, eric barnabé from matane is the tru 1337 h4x0r.
what? this is the dumbest thing i have ever heard.
the application that scans the qr code will obviously verify that the domain of the url points to the government site.
you have to be con ...
(and anyway, the qr code is not an anyway link, it is a block of data encrypted with the private key of the government)
get vaccinated and shut your mouths
to see the quality of french in his tweet, it sets the tone for his knowledge in technology
based
* for sure, i'll give my code to anyone on kijiji. *
criss of apparatus.
what we need is a quantum dot tattoo that can be applied to the skin, it is an invisible tattoo that can be scanned with a smart device. also, say bye bye the little freedom we have. it's the end of the normal world my friends.
not just bmws, most of the time it's rams that light up my interior as if it was daylight.
xenon headlights are relatively rare these days, but almost all new tanks have led headlights which have the disadvantage of having a cooler light than the old halogen which can be very aggressive. my tank has that, esti that i see well, but sometimes i get flashed by people who think that i am on the highs but i can not do anything (yes they are well adjusted). almost all new tanks are the same.
the problem, however, is people who jack up their pickups without readjusting the headlights.
the new tanks light too much, but also the cones which put leds on their old tanks. it is illegal to do it yourself in quebec, if i remember correctly, because the lighthouses must be targeted so as not to blind
the worst is when they are in the city on a street with lampposts at 20 feet. christ, if you are so afraid of the dark, stay at home!
i drive a small, fairly low car, and a lot of people have their headlights pointed quite a bit high, and probably a lot harder than necessary. it scraps night vision, and it turns all my mirrors into beautiful white light that can't be used as a mirror. it frustrates me often enough that i try to see if there are rules for power and direction, but i haven't found anything concrete. now i have a yellow clip for my glasses that works a bit. but i am still frustrated.
no more complaints, you just have to drive with an automatic welding helmet. since then i have no more problem.
without drawing?
personally, even regular lights blind me at night ... when i come across these shits, or recent led headlights that stick too much to my back, i sometimes have to put my chances to tell them that they are dangerous for me 🤷‍♂️
as far as i notice that a good proportion of people driving german cars that i pass on the road are often the typical examples of people who are not courteous at the wheel, one cannot attribute the strong leds much too strong to only these brands. . it is a generalized phenomenon.
often i even come across pickups that already have headlights at a height that absolutely does not require the addition of led light and they do. you really have to settle for the quality of life of other motorists.
i speak to them in morse code with the mirror clip.
you mean the wannabe with xenon addons from canadian tire? yes indeed
itt people who don't have auto-dimming mirrors.
i have a low car but with my mirrors i can look directly into the taillights without being blinded.
better solution than buying a pickup so as not to be blinded 🤷‍♂️, like some users here.
all the somewhat lifter pick-up tabarnaks. like yo the fat do you need to fry me do my retina at 1 in the morning?
is it really important to see in the future calvasse?
flashers always have small penises!
y'on l'doua!
for those who live more in montreal, imagine his pick-up jacker 12 feet in the air
pro tips you can weigh on the bottom of your central mirror to reduce the light, but it does not help for side mirrors :(
why must this be recommended to me i may be canadian but im still learning french
article 425 of the highway safety code stipulates that within 150 meters of a vehicle that you pass or follow, you must pass high beams (the "highs" with a range of 150 meters) at dipped headlights (the "low" ones, with a range of 45 to 75 meters). the expected fine ranges from $ 60 to $ 100 (plus costs).
[deleted]
i'm glad the fashion seems to be passing. if you stick to my ass and flash me, i'm guaranteed to do anything to slow you down.
it's because it's lawyers and politicians who buy these tanks there.
edit: it looks like i hurt the ruling class.
i had to make choices, i'm not to squeal all the tank marks on kevin's face.
seriously, i often come back in the evening from the north and the pickups that follow you blind you completely. i hear my retina fry.
in my area it's pretty much just bmws that do that. good choice op.
ps: "his"
no need to jack up your pickup to blind others, just follow them fairly closely. i drive a corolla and i live in the north shore, let's say i don't like driving at night.
usually it's not just their headlights that are a problem. (the world who jack their pickup)
yeah, i have the problem of having an f150 follow me a lot more often than even if it is on its bass, it is direct in my mirror.
i often get flashed in my 2014 civic which has the standard stock bin lights. i always like it to flash to show them that i'm not on the highs.
yeah. that's why i bought my tank to have side mirrors and the rear-view mirror with the auti sun.
with the tinted glass behind it is fine, not at all blind.
i often get flashed too even if i don't have the highs it's a bit kidding
this is real shit. it lights up everywhere instead of just making a beam towards the roadway. it's blinding kelcriss and i also notice that sometimes the light flashes and it is borderline epileptic
you can always adjust the angle of the headlights with a screwdriver, but not everyone.
speaking of streetlights, fuck quebec city changing lights from hot / orange to cold / white.
a 3m has 800 $ i hope
yes, he talks about those poor wretches afflicted by the absence of a pencil and a sketchbook. it's really horrible as a condition, we shouldn't laugh about it.
i always thought it was “drawingless” too, until i saw it written “without purpose”, in the aimless genre. i told myself that it makes a lot more sense like that
op wanted to show you his pretty designs.
maybe your windshield is too pecked too. i don't exactly know the science behind it but it causes the rays of light which should pass through the windshield to catch on the pins and diffuse like a halo
🤢
i do my best, if you are demanding
new tanks have this kind of light by default, it's not as long as you want it to be
−··· ·−−−  ····· −·−· ·− −··
wow excellent i just figured it out
quebec master race buddy !
i'm not even on the subreddit
you're never gonna get tickets for that unless you do it on a police
learn to use your turn signals before you whine
put down the cellar! if i had time to get behind you and your not yet to wrestle that you have to free the left lane ... i will flash you again
there are two zeros too many in the price
my mother and i have plenty of them in our laundry rooms, we use them to hang up t-shirts… we're going to make a fortune!
excellent missed opportunity; they should have put it at $ 99.97 for club z members.
"ga réjean, it's like an old zellers hanger. ma trying to sell that expensive on facebook, people like antiques there."
item de collection
at my job, we use old zellers baskets to carry our recycling. are you rich ???.
r / lespacdelirante
i saw a woolco bag at my in-laws the other day
i am a little disappointed, i wanted a small.
i may have dreamed, but i seem to have seen on the news that the zellers brand was making a comeback in some old premises in la baie. if so, the hanger will quickly lose value !!!
"zellers, where the lowest price ............ makes laundry lean."
what is that?
that’s hilarious
so i would like it if the salesperson was an undercover psychiatrist specializing in tocs.
zellers was the best store: good prices and choices.
that's nothing i have a plastic bag of "m" (miracle mart) somewhere in a bin.
for those who missed it last month: zellers is still (semi) [alive] ( in 2021.
worse while we're here: despite the opportunities, i don't think i've ever had the opportunity to eat at one of the zellers restaurants - has any memories to tell?
poop from alcide barbeau's dog is also rare and worth nothing.
with steinberg as a bonus?
/r/crackheadcraigslist/
a relic from a time before amazon ...
zellers.. nah.
greenberg on the other hand.
i would say more, there is a 1 and a 0 too many in the price.
the lowest price is the law!
if you want to sell it for a big price you can put a frame around it and say it's art.
be careful, if you flood the market they will lose value.
it depends. are the baskets full of cash?
r / the lirante space?
it is marked under the image, it is a hanger ...
it’s truly a national artifact lol
i never should have thrown away my old steinberg plastic bag.
it's easier to just remove the 1
or the lowest price rules!
new store name: zellarts.
not necessarily. it can very well bet on the fact that it is a collector's series, a special edition. in this case, it provides even more rarity and therefore $$$$$
right, you have to sell 1 every 6 months, increasing the price each time.
i had written wrongly there was a missing d (delusionalcraigslist)
no but i did not understand why it is rare while i have never seen its
because zellers stores no longer exist, so there should (normally) no longer be zellers hangers in households. plus, i think these hangers weren't even supposed to leave the store, so it's even more special.
but this offer is surely a joke because nostalgia is beautiful, but you shouldn't dream with $ 100 hangers.
it's a store that closed a few years, there were all over canada
sorry i misunderstood.
as the others have commented, it's just because it no longer exists, but the offer is rather unusual, to be polite.
> i have never seen her
exactly, it's a rare item!
it always makes me laugh these kinds of announcements. no chance that a plastic hanger that has been produced in millions of copies over the years is of any value. a sign? there you speak. an employee's suit? may be. but a hanger that anyone could walk away with? meh ...
especially since it's not been that long since the store has been closed and it's not said that it will become a big element of popular nostalgia ...
an intact zeddy costume, on the other hand ... i would think hard about it.
i saw an ad the other day: $ 150 for 4 laguiole steak knives.
all because it's the same brand as in squid game.
omg. it would be sick. i even thought i could have zeddy!
shit, you just unlocked a childhood memory: we had [this cookie jar] ( at home !
especially since they sell 8 for $ 35 on amazon
i just had the doggie, i'm very jealous ...: p
as soon as a thread has more than 100 comments, it's up to you to play russian roulette to know if you're going to score -10 or +10 with a comment, no matter your position.
but like flies attracted to a big pile of manure, it would seem that they are always the same ones commenting on the threads in question.
ok, is good 😂 by the way, thanks to the moderation team. it must suck rare this is the time
who is mr [deleted] who says nothing but [removed]?
masked, social distance respected, wears gloves in public ...
he's careful!
at this point here i think going completely nuclear on the substations is the best option
epic 😂😂
u/getvideobot
what
i live dangerously
[nénon pantoute.](
hey! video is ready 
###[download via redditsave.com](
 --- 
 [**info**]( |  [**feedback**]( for getvideobot)  |  [**donate**]( | [**dmca**]( removal request for getvideobot)
the number of anti-vaxx on r / quebec is large, and therefore on every post talking about covid-19, the moderation team must delete these comments all the time.
[deleted]
a little thursday
thank you, i laughed out loud. it wakes up my cats. i needed this after a two hour meeting that could have been an email.
edith: omg this channel is amazing!
gum keyboard asmr
shouldn't erase them
1
with us we do meetings before meetings, and recaps of meetings after meetings. thank you for not making me feel alone!
critical damage! the innkeeper turns her back on me and slanders me.
lol, once i had an appointment after a meeting, i had informed my boss. so i attend the meeting, when it's over i describe. there i am in a tank and i keep having my teams beeping every 30 seconds. arrived at the meeting, i see that my boss was in panic because "i was not at the meeting". esti, i was there! i just decided to leave before the unofficial meeting after which is basically just biting on the other teams after the joint meetings ... esti office life ...
[christ. tell me about it] (
hahahahaha we saw the same irritants!
happy new year my tabarnak
happy new year keven
happy december 32, 2020 !!
happy new years gang slut
happy new year to all except the federalists
happy new year, big noses!
bye bye 2020! go die face in the gutter, dried up with bills!
then we will have it osti! ✌
have a good brush then have fun (have fun)!
happy new year my motherfucker. don't use too much al-glue and weed
happy new year boys
happy new year the gang !!
happy new year to all redditeux
happy new year redditors
happy new year brother
good and happy my esti gang.
good fuck you it's january, as the english say (and honestly, january 2021 is going to be more than ever!)
the end of the world is a roar of good beer
i was in old quebec for the new year it was great fun even with the restrictions !!
happy new year friends, from a new quebecer! (:
go shit a little bit! good year ! (you're going to shit tomorrow morning anyway)
thank you, happy new year to all of you!
happy new year dirty dog!
happy new year, my tarlas!
happy new year people!
good year!!!
a happy new year!
good year!! :)
i even think that there was said happy new year big dirty dog!
bonané
likewise your tooth!
happy new year gang!
i wish you all a healthy year!
beautiful host of the year!
bananas!
infoman was really funny
happy new year the great criss of chums!
happy new year my good ugly ones!
good year !!!
happy new year my gang of big crisses.
:)
you likewise my sacrament!
lots of osti amenities!
happy new year everyone! worse that i do not see you in my lab my calisses!
[year of hell, part 2] (
happy new year tsi kev
happy new year man⚜
i'm going to buy your snake from you
happy new year my tuesday meals !!! take care of yourself and the best for the new year !!
happy new year and don't take advantage of it!
fuck you to you! to you worse in 2020! 😄
frankly the bye bye not that well
there are no more "mandarin speakers" in canada than francophones.
we are talking here about 1m vs at least 7m, so 7 times less
this must be the dumbest thing ever. as an anglophone i don't get why people are so butthurt about quebec wanting to protect the french language. it's one of the things that makes our province so unique. my family from all around the world has visited us here in quebec, yet none of them visited ontario for example because it was just another "usa" for them. and yeah this tweet is utter nonsense
"i heard from a canadian friend ..."
ok, but have you spoken to a quebecker once in your life, boyfriend?
he is a little right, i have a chuck on my drill and in addition it is of the dewalt brand which is very popular in the south for its involvement in nascar.
the dude is publicly anti-racist on his facebook. i can't believe it's real.
have you made the world expert trolls without knowing it? how can you be so contradictory?
please someone ask me on a scale of 1 to 10 how much i care what english canada and us incels think.
i don’t know if everyone here has noticed but over the last few weeks these types of posts have massively increased. random shit, random people may or may not have said. it’s clear to me from the sudden increase in these posts and the current political events that it’s not a coincidence. just going to remind the very intelligent and politically savvy people here to never take off your critical thinking glasses. political agents of all kinds and all origins on this wide anonymous web are weaponizing division, either by inventing it or by exaggerating it. stay frosty my dudes.
/ r / quebec: fuck that they are racist towards us.
another subreddit: they are subhumans.
the average apologist: you shoot on canada!
if he is american and he gets an idea of the kwebacers based on the english of canada, one can imagine the good and the veracity of the comments received.
[deleted]
québec is cold not like florida is very hot weather
the most racist people i have met in my life call themselves anti-racist. i know a guy who gives a degrading 5-minute speech to all the french people he meets. it's not discrimination, they are white!
this man in 1941: "i spoke to a german and he told me that the jews were all monsters, treacherous, vicious and dangerous for society"
note: i am not making a comparison between us and the jews, of course. i just show that this proud of others to form an opinion of a whole people is a bit of a whack.
yes but it's just a random on the internet (said for the 235 237th time)
c'est foutaise. when i was in quebec i practiced french everyday and people were super polite and patient.
ok tom
pis moe the friend of the mother of the hairdresser of my cousin's neighbor who is also the friend of my brother's father told me that you stank of your eyes
a lot of people in the post say, “we don't care what other people think! the americans, yeah we couldn't care less. but canadians vote and work in the public service. so no, we don't care.
criss of racist and retarded quebeckers who speak a tongue-in-cheek language. why can't they be tolerant like me? 🙄
the guy isn't even able to write "mandarin" correctly, so that says a lot about the quality of his opinion.
ah the americans
who gives a shit what a random american thinks about us? they're the least generally aware people in the developed world. if it wasn't for their money, historical luck and so forth, they'd be the alabama of the west. hell, most europeans already believe that.
just like saying someone is racist doesn't mean that person is racist, declaring yourself anti-racist doesn't mean you are. and we have a good example. and if someone confronts him, he will release the old chorus of "french is not a race" despite the fact that racism includes ethnicity.
what's facebook?
seriously, it's high time to erase facebook.
i don't know where he gets his information from, but the people who speak mandarin haven't founded quebec. i have nothing against ethnicity, but if i move to japan, i will learn japanese and i will not upset the locals with my language and my culture; i will assimilate to japan as much as possible. you know wham'sayin?
eh i am american and lived in montreal - this is nonsensical.
when you get worked up by a troll - the thread.
no but we don't care what they think
tell me you don't understand sweet fuck all without saying you don't understand sweet fuck all.
all that, but when it comes time to consecrate our camps, panic pounding.
does he really mix an official language that has been here longer than english with the language of an immigrant population?
worse, it's not like 3-4% of the population who speak mandarin vs. around 20% who speak french?
i have heard alberta compared to florida more often than quebec but in any case florida is too special to equal lol
anti-racist but ho lala quebecers should not have any rights! it's sad how the rest of canada sees quebec, mainly in terms of education, let's say their history books are a bit different from ours.
american centric opinion with only american centric references..
ok buddy
i always felt like the prairies were seen as our version of the southern united states. it seems that i was wrong: /
it is not all frustrating to read this ... tabarnak !!! 1
not interested in knowing this guy lol
good old quebec bashing families! it is almost heartwarming as we are used to it.
the french have a legitimate claim. if our useless government was looking out for it's citizens rights properly, we would not have a substantial  part time canadian east indian and chinese immigrants buying up real canadians real-estate and polluting the political landscape. so, yes there is a problem and it is not with the french but with the idiot trudeau.
a real government would limit immigrants to balance the numbers from various ethnic groups and also limit the real-estate available to all citizens so that everyone can enjoy a canadian life style. this 'real government would also tax the reams of immigrants not paying tax like they should. i have seen many hiding taxes in ways you can not even imagine and then spending most of the year in another country while our citizens are doom to pay these same criminals rent!
…. yeah quebec is just another place where people try to live without fearing that nobody will not understand them i mean more and more different languages appears in canada its scary for people whove been here since a long ass time and also quebec aimt pro racism so yeah jot south america
ah yes, the "chuck" lol ... fucking troll, it just looks like a case written all wrong by a cellar who wants to provoke and cling to the 4 seconds of emotions that it will make him feel in his day of late
tom you’re stupid. french canadiens are the founding people of this land. crack a book, don’t smoke it.
sounds like his canadian friends are actually americans, lol
people on facebook are very mean. they often say stupid comments. we don't care about people's opinions.
it's tom de cun.
quebec is regarded as a “distinct society” from the rest of canada. this has a lot of ramifications.
american south lol
he forgot to mention that the quebecois migrate to florida during the winter .. it would have added a little spice to his analysis
i like tangerines
often mandarin is spoken as a second language with regional mother tongues in china 😛
someone needs to look up how french became a national language in the first place.
simply say bravo for your gesture, your honesty and your courage! have a good evening!
small confession: i canceled my first date of the first dose because i had a panic attack at the thought of going to a place with a lot of people. i'm not afraid because of the covid, but let's say i'm slightly agoraphobic (i manage it better and better though) ... i went there two weeks later finally, and it went well. the second also went well.
anyway, just to tell you that you are not alone :) i'm glad you managed to overcome this fear. let's go !!
if it can reassure other people:
\ - no major symptoms after my two doses. a localized pain in the arm, maybe a bit scratched the day after the second (vaccine or just slept badly because my arm was hurting?), but that's it.
\ - the bite is so fast that you will not finish your thought that it will be over. one dose burned me a bit more, the second i asked the lady if she had really stung me, since i was not looking. nothing felt.
\ - big vaccination centers can be intimidating on paper, but on site, it's a fantastic organization, very guided, and made to reassure everyone. and these centers are quiet right now.
\ - if a large vaccination center is scary, look at the temporary clinics in your area on the site of your health center. if it is, it is done in a place that you already know and it is reassuring.
\ - there are also mobile clinics, very small, often outside with the sound of seagulls, really not many people, and you can see immediately how it goes.
\ - on site, it will be the best customer service ever. there are a ton of employees who are there to help, and who are super happy to do so. everyone is talkable, ask all the questions you want, chat about the rain and the good weather if that makes you feel relaxed. any worry that seems silly to you? ask! you are not alone, everyone is there for you.
[deleted]
i understand you solid. someone very close has had a serious reaction to the vaccine and now has lifelong autoimmune disease. i hesitate a lot after that, but now my rv is taken for the first dose. i hope it will go as well as you
really happy to read you! i too had my first dose yesterday. i was in a study for a new vaccine (medicago's) which meant that i couldn't have a vaccine marketed, but eventually i knew i had had the placebo. i was honestly afraid of the reaction of the world to the vaccination, kind of afraid of being judged for having waited so long if i didn't tell them i had a good reason… but not all, everyone was just well well happy to vaccinate as many people as possible. and the reactions here too are positive, it makes me feel good to read too! it means that if there are other social anxious like me who are stopped by the kind of thought that it's too late or i don't really know, well it's not too late. :)
i congratulate you enormously on your courage and your efforts. i imagine it couldn't have been an easy decision for you, and it's good news that it went so well! even better that you can "pay it forward" by supporting your mother in her vaccination journey too.
thanks thanks thanks.
good job! question for you, because your text does not seem to be of the "cuckoo" style and other amalgamation of the genre ...
why did you wait? did you write that you are afraid of everything and nothing, it was the bite, the short-term side effects (arm pain, headache etc?) or the more serious short / medium-term embolism style? or the wackiest of their kind we're all gonna die in november?
because i think a lot of people are in your situation. i find it hard to believe that the 30% of people who are not yet vaccinated are all cellars, i think there are many more people who are afraid than people who are convinced that the vaccine is evil.
well done! i have my sister who is still afraid to take it as well as my brother! they are aware that it is the choice to be made but they are afraid and cannot take their courage with both hands .. i hope that, like you, they would make an appointment and be vaccinated.
well done! i too hesitated long enough.
on the other hand my mother is still afraid, she would like me to be with her. does anyone know if it is possible to accompany him?
now that your chip has been implanted ...
.
.
.
execute order 66
thank you for your service to society my friend!
first time writing here, but well done for taking the plunge! and i advise you for the 2nd dose to take tylenols a little after your vaccine to reduce the side effects. people around me have done it and it greatly helps them to be well. in my case, i didn't do it and i was pretty good at it. in short, take care of yourself !!
i know that it is an internal process that you seem to be making progress for some time but did the announcement of the vaccination passport accelerate your thinking or is the timing just a coincidence?
not easy to overcome his fears, you have all my admiration.
good job louis.
bravo !!!
bravo!
i didn't wait for the 2 doses because i think i was more afraid of the virus than everything else, but from a chronic anxious: gg! i was not well during the meeting because of the amount of people but it went perfect!
those who think of going to places with an appointment and who have difficulty managing the overcrowding of people and the uncertainty: it's super well organized! there is literally someone at 6 meters to orient you, and even after the vaccine box, literally until the exit, they are there to ask you how you are / how it was! in short, super relax in fact!
edit: everything is indicated with signs and on the ground, best place ever in fact for someone who does not like to be stuck, long live the obligatory distancing haha
well done !
i study medicine, but without being on an internship, i was not in the "health personnel". as soon as i got the vaccine, i pitched on it haha
but i work as a vaccinator, and you're really not the only one! i see several adults receiving their 1st dose and i am always happy to serve them. you made the right choice and i'm glad you didn't have too much e2
edit addition: try to stay away from subs like nonewnormal. as well as being a nest of covid conspirators, they really walk hand in hand with right-wing and racist propaganda. it's gonna be their next turn when the pandemic is over
we don't know each other, but i'm proud of you anyway! and i'm sure your loved ones too!
thank you!
i didn't have anything first dose either. the second, i was tired for 48 hours but that's it. very happy that you are joining the group
hi! i'm proud of you for having been vaccinated, good move! i too hadn't had my first dose yet. and this week i caught the virus (sunday the 31st). however, in my case everything is fine. no symptoms apart from a runny nose for the first 3 days and normal tiredness, but which is felt 2-3 hours earlier than normal bedtime. also on day 1 i had a little headache in the morning when i woke up, but it passed after an hour. i'm lucky i guess ... but it gave me fewer symptoms than a normal cold, i was very surprised when i received the call from public health telling me that i had tested positive, because i was just going to be tested in order to be able to "back" myself (like what i was negative and that it must just have been a little cold) to my employer when i was going to be asked the list of covid questions when i got home at work this week. in short, i theoretically just had my first dose of covid (unfortunately by contagion) but i had no sore throat, no headache (except day 1 for 1-2 hours), no fever, no cough, no pain anywhere, nothing but a runny nose the first 3 days. and since then i have nothing. but unfortunately i passed it on to a friend of mine (who had already received a dose of the vaccine) while on a fishing trip when my symptoms first appeared. and my friend, he feels bad, it affects him more than me. he has a sore throat, headache, fatigue, runny nose, he coughs etc. we are the same age (23) though. like what it affects everyone differently. finally, i recommend everyone to have both doses, because since i have the virus, i have been in direct contact (the world of my fishing trip and my family) with people who had both doses and they all went to get tested and neither of them had covid. so both doses work very well. i see my parents every day and they have nothing from the start and it's always the same, my friend too (he who feels bad) and his parents have not developed anything, they have not even tested positive no more. in short, do not like me, get vaccinated.
ps if you want to know why i hadn't been vaccinated yet. it's because from the start i said to myself "bring it on". in other words, i don't care about snatching the covid. and also, they say it doesn't protect others, so i didn't see the point because i would have done to protect others myself. but ultimately, yes it really does protect others too because the world who have their two doses (my parents) and who are in contact with people infected with the virus (me) do not even need to 'isolate. they can continue to do what they want, go and see who they want when they want and regardless of whether they go to see people vaccinated or not. fakk me, i'm going to take my second straight up dose as soon as i can (in 4 weeks) because yes my friend, it clearly protects the others too.
edit: i'm going to be honest with you and confess that i'm happy to have had my first dose this way since it gave me fewer side effects than a lot of my friends who had the vaccine and worse that it made them "squeal their ass" for a day or two. but i'm still going to get vaccinated to protect everyone.
well done! i hope you will influence some of them.
thank you for your action.
the important thing is not that you are late but that you think about protecting yourself.
congratulation! i myself canceled my first appointments twice in april because i was pregnant in the first trimester and i was worried about the unknown risk to the baby. i know what this anxiety is ... i'm a little embarrassed to admit it but i cried with anxiety at the time of the injection ...
i'm glad it went well for you! good day!
tip: go there at 6 a.m. my 2 doses were at 6 a.m. and there was almost no one there. the staff are very nice too, if you have any concerns feel free to talk to them.
honestly even the second dose is really not that bad .. all of my guy friends (50 and under) have had almost no side effects! me as a woman in my thirties the second dose got me more into it but even that lasted 24 hours and i have already had bad days worse than that. at least in this case i felt useful to society .. well done and i hope your post will encourage others!
well done! i have a phobia of needles but between receiving a small injection that does not even last 3 seconds instead of getting the covid which lasts for weeks with perhaps lifelong consequences, the choice was quickly made.
i don't regret it at all. both times i had arm pain and mild fatigue for two days and that was it.
having a phobia of needles, i was accompanied by a trusted person and i brought with me one of my favorite doggies. no one found me naive, i even received encouragement and congratulations. if you are afraid of needles, do the same if it makes you feel better!
thank you big!
even with side effects it's worth it. i slept on the couch for 24 hours watching netflix and it was over. imagine having had the full pin covid .. my girlfriend had no effects.
i understand to be afraid,
but with the covid and even the long covid i think the vaccine is the best choice, these symptoms are minor vs the covid
and the risk of complications almost zero
this is not the case with covid
i hope more will make this choice
cool your life
let's go! tell me about it!
#the september squat in the evening!
it is because the government has perfected the injection of its bluetooth / s chip
bravo!
what influenced your decision? is it the vaccination passport?
yes sir!
well done! we are proud of you louis!
i just had an appointment for my 2nd dose, i was scared as i got pregnant in between doses and scared of the side effects from my 2nd dose now that i am pregnant and super tired / nauseous all the time.
glad i took it and i can't wait for it to be done!
glad you got your first dose. i am for the vaccine, but against the vaccine passport.
[
1) well done for the vaccine.
2) well done for the honesty towards the reasons.
i really have a hard time understanding why people are so afraid of the side effects of the vaccine that they would rather risk catching the real disease… be a little feverish, tired, have a sore arm… for real, how can people to be terrified of that ??
i have just arrived home after the 1st dose. the reason is that i am really afraid of needles.
to put in perceptual, i have a numb arm just thinking about getting vaccinated and i already passed out just seeing a needle.
to be perfectly honest, the sting i felt it enter quite stiff, but for the moment everything is fine and i managed to drive me home. the positive, these that these finally made.
it's so late.
you are antivax. / s
people have become darling.
i'm still on my ass to see and hear every possible excuse not to get stung.
on immunization days, when i was ti-cul, all parents sent their children. no statistics whining about collecting inaccurate facts from the internet.
[deleted]
i'm happy for you, really without sarcasm. the fact that you didn't have any counter effects means nothing. the effects are unknown. it is fear that i have. moderna has never released a vaccine with success until now and pfizer has never been approved (emergency measure). according to the latest report from pfizer also the effectiveness is in question. in closing when we offer gifts + privilege to inject a product into our body that does not work like a traditional vaccine i ask myself a lot of questions. the fact that you were hesitant it is correct and i respect your decision. thanks for sharing.
the blackmail worked.
to see the owners of restaurants flash their large tanks on grande-allée pre-pandemic while the cooks had miserable salaries, so much the better.
20 years of restoration. i've never seen that. i have tears in my eyes.
[deleted]
“this is a wendy’s sir”.
excellent salary compared to the work. here to make $ 22 an hour you have to go to the factory (very hard as a job, a lot of night shifts) and to have a lot more it is the mines (i do not include the specialized trades such as the doctors ).
good news for cooks. let it continue in this direction.
in order for the owners to maintain their rhythm of life, this increase will be followed by a drastic increase in à la carte prices ....
i really don't envy the job of a cook ... 4 p.m. to 11 p.m., wednesday to sunday, it must be great for family and married life. if at least it was on rotation ..... i understand that it's how the business is done, that the world is there in the evening ... but it's still not obvious .... hat to those for whom it is a passion.
lord, when i had completed my masters, the hourly rate for a position i was interested in in the public service was $ 25 / hour. i'm happy for the cooks, but i wonder if we collectively value education. i'm in phd now and would be happy to have an hourly wage of $ 30 / hour when i graduate from college.
no, but where is it? i would like the supports with my achalendage ...
they use the wage subsidy to provide that kind of salary.
restaurants on grande-allée will be able to obtain it throughout the summer given the drastic loss of tourist traffic.
the pizzeria that fed you during the winter is unable to offer this salary since it is not necessarily eligible for the said subsidy.
it's a very good thing, but it's still a special middle ground.
for having worked in it for a few years when i was young. let's say there is a high propensity of people with behavioral or social disorders.
a cook with a red seal easily deserves $ 35 + hour.
it clearly shows that the owners are lining their pockets.
still far from being able to buy a house
welcome to inflation. it's just getting started, but in 1 year this salary will be equivalent in purchasing power to today's minimum wage.
even my job as a government sub-contractor doesn't pay as well. i'm a little under $ 19. at least my bills ain't expensive
i have 416 college credits and still don't have a full-time job. maybe i should have gone to construction or the rcmp like my brothers
i'm from quebec, it's at the restaurant of the 3 brasseurs fyi chain if there are any who want to apply!
amalgam
i say, it's not enough. it's a salary of "i'm in a mess, i need a cook". $ 25 / h minimum.
[deleted]
the owners will continue to flash the tank.
just that part of the population will be excluded from this new luxury.
yeah, but be careful, their restaurant is often a money laundering machine.
the profit margins of most restaurants in quebec are very low.
having said that, of course the wages are too low, and their business models are based on that; a reorganization of work would be required to have the same productivity with fewer better paid employees. lots of tasks and time are unnecessary big bucks that wouldn't happen if salary costs were higher.
i left the kitchens to go to education.
worse, it's $ 2 less an hour than i'm making now. seriously, if this becomes the norm, it will do good to those who have not given up on cooking! wow!
preemptive edit: yes i am at the bottom of the ladder at the moment, no, there is no kitchen that will lean against the top of my ladder, i know that. it's still incredible that a restaurant can touch the bottom of the salary scale of a public service!
[deleted]
yeah, it depends on the same.
in terms of infrastructure, it has fallen so badly that i charge $ 97 per hour on a contract.
chu just tech info, i gotta fucking pinch myself.
there are jobs that will disappear for lack of staff. squi will stay will eventually lead to wage inflation and greater social mobility. i think it's not just bad. ultimately i don't have long studies and you don't risk hurting yourself.
then change jobs. anyone can answer 9 to 5 emails. the employment pendulum is shifting back to the more technical and "involved" jobs and less to the white collar workers filling the cubicles.
at my factory, an automation technician earns as much starting out as someone in quality assurance or project management who has good degrees in addition to being paid the overhead.
sure enough, watch out for inflation
kitchen work: forget about having a social life, thursday friday saturday evening you work,
about 20 years ago, when i started in the kitchen in quebec, we were already short of staff for the kitchens, and the owners were already saying that it was difficult to maintain because customers expect a table d'hôte for $ 20.
expectations have not changed in 20 years. adds rising ingredients, etc ...
there, the restaurant clientele is due for a crash of landings. this is what gives the industry abuse, at some point, it will have to backfire!
i don't think we don't value education, but the demand for kitchen staff is just much higher than the supply.
my father works in catering (in the kitchen, not the owner) and told me the other day that almost half of their staff just weren't coming back for the opening, since they had found other jobs during the lockdown.
the opposite happened in the pharmaceutical industry: when my mother started working, a laboratory technique was enough to work as an analyst in a pharmaceutical company. now they are applying for a masters degree for the exact same job, because there are so many technicians / bachelors / masters graduating every year.
supply and demand in action.
i left the master's degree at 25 / h. six years later, i'm at 37, or 42 if you have an employer-paid pension plan. and i'm at the bottom of the ladder. from 6 years old, i will earn 55 / h. education still gives a big +. restaurants rarely have insurance + reer, which is not negligible.
restaurants are thankless places to work.
in quebec with a dec + diploma and depending on your field, you can easily go and recover the same amount when you leave.
remember that your salary will only go up.
even if you are in a field that has little or no economic vocation, you can very well go into the public service in non-specialized positions when you leave. you will climb the ranks to reach interesting positions.
if you have to choose the level of government, the federal government is, in my opinion, the best public service. i have a lot of former students who are going there, because the payroll is, let's say, very interesting.
in computer science, my young people start at $ 64k / year, that's $ 20k more than a new teacher.
in administration, it's $ 50k / year.
good luck!
young people have been encouraged to go to university for decades. it ends that a job that required a dec before now requires a bacc for the same job, not because more education is needed for the same position, but because the pool of candidates who have a bacc has widened more faster than the pool of jobs that require higher education. so now high school graduates are competing for the same positions that took a cegep before, which means that employers can afford to raise their criteria. it ends that wanting at all costs that the population have higher education is perhaps not such a good idea.
ditto for me, i make an hourly wage of $ 25 for a job with a master's degree in a field where there is demand. i'm happy for them but i see my amount of student debt to pay off and it made me give up my phd because the salaries (and positions) aren't there at the end.
brag
3 brasseurs grande-allée
almost everywhere in quebec at least.
rather, consumption problems.
to live well without having to panic before each pay, $ 20 / h is good, a little luxury without more.
i prefer to pay for my meal $ 2-3 more if that means the employees are not in dire straits.
explain to me how your conservative mentality is stalled in the field.
according to "you people", raising wages will make everything go up, but hey just imagine that for 30-40 years wages have not really increased, but everything has skyrocketed.
if the cook makes more money, he will have more to spend in a shoe store, that shoe store there, well he will make more money and he too can pay his employees better. the shoe salesman, he makes more money, fakes more dining out ... holy shit did i just explain how the economic vicious circle works 🤔
worse the government does not cry, more taxes for them.
[deleted]
incredible or better sharing of wealth?
any business is nothing if it can't rely on reliable employees, and it pays off. positive.
and those who are in business but who say they cannot arrive because they are not able to support the salaries, well you have not yet reached the point where you can pay yourself employees without exploiting them.
this is definitely good news for restaurants, but it also reflects the relatively low salaries in the public service. in education, teachers are among the best paid: for several categories of school support jobs (office workers, maintenance and cleaning staff, security officers, etc.) even after 20 years seniority, people do not reach or approach an hourly rate of $ 22 / hour at the top of the salary scale for several job categories.
before the 2000s, it was true that civil service salaries were attractive but they did not keep up with inflation ...
you have something that many kitchen people do not have, the intellectual wealth that you went to seek with your workplace.
[deleted]
wait, is there an it shortage?
hey, that sounds like u / cosmic_butter_cpu
[deleted]
should i listen to borat me (0 \ _0)
[a small modification] (
post to r/canada. t'es pas game.
a masterpiece
what is the original post?
hey in my greatest franglais, je dit pench twer! 🤣
long live laurentia!
perfect translation!
dsl i had to downvote it was at 421 (let it go up, i upvote it)
xd
the guy was going to do both
[deleted]
it is an insane dive into americanity.
the jackass-style bizzare of humor is painful, but beyond that, the film is very relevant.
the first is excellent. the second is poorly heated.
i'm not the first to have this idea of the air, oops.
i love
they don't accept the same. it's in their rules.
that one can be
probably the one referred to in [this cross-post] (
quebec tabarnak
clarity act says otherwise.
like, the referendum failed, but canada still felt the need to pass that law because they were just that insecure.
is this really what the roc tell itself when we're not looking? 
do you really believe this?
i feel the pq just has to be elected with a minority to send you all back into alert mode regarding an improbable referendum.
exact. these people are only oppressed by their own imaginations. canada does not care.
stop downvoting guys. this is why we look like assholes. to the one who said quebec tabarnaque that was the best comment ever. as a bilingual in quebec that was some funny ass shit. halifax bro my mom lives in blockhouse. legit y'all relax crisse.
edit: mfw i'm the coureur des bois between the english and the french. ffs. 😆 edit 2: ouu shiny!
the first is more relevant today than the second as well.
we are clearly the smartest province. tabarnak.
no fun at the roc
r / onguardforthee would be more receptive i think
canada does not care so much that the federal parliament adopted in 2000 the referendum clarity act which, without explicitly naming quebec, refers to the two referendum questions and gives the house of commons the exclusive power to accept / reject possible referendums.
look, this canadiens superiority complex doesn't help solve the problem or relieve the tension.
true! and as alexis would say to her brother in schitt's creek: nobody sees you like you see you. nobody cares.
as much as i don't agree with the "what's a québec" superiority complex, it's still sad to see you get downvoted for telling people to chill.
that being said, downvoting the superiority comment for "not contributing to the discussion" is still good reddiquette, right?
[deleted]
the second immediately demonstrates how craycray the cabinet of the former president was.
what is the relationship?
a meme that contrasts the relationship between french and english canada? it is very bad to know r / onguardforthee to think that they would be more receptive.
yeah i guess. what doesn't kill me makes me stronger lol
pass the baton bro.
let people who post memes to highlight and criticize the current state in order to promote discussion.
fuck yeah. bring on the memes brethren.
oh i was talking more about the container than the content, in the sense that r / onguardforthee accepts the same. i don't know about the content haha
yeah, but it doesn't have to do with the province that r / canada doesn't accept the same ones.
oh ok, yes they accept the same.
if you don't accept memes in your subreddit you're a fascist screech. ngl that's my personal view on things.
lol you hold that to heart the same!
the same one you want to share is just toxic to begin with. it only insults our canadian neighbors. it's sort of a hate meme.
"you don't like the same and i don't like your rules !? your literally hitler !! esti de fascist !!"
how can you be so stupid ...
you no? criss. the economy of memes. education of memes. new world order man. 👊💞
jesus. come on. it's clearly a funny comment.
have you talk to people from other provinces.
it's a gift really. jesus. is sarcasm dead?
no, the sarcasm is alive but you are unable to use it properly and your comment does not read as sarcastic.
legault is not pad thai against the repartee of gnd
* kin ton wok *
a non-stick wok is a bit of shit because 9 out of 10 dishes that require a wok require it to be extremely hot, something that the non-stick cannot do because the non-stick coating breaks in the heat and makes toxic fumes.
it takes carbon steel but it's pretty hard to get in and cook with, you're better off with a big cast iron pan if you don't quite know what you're doing. (also must be sure to pin one with a fairly wide flat bottom unless you have gas stoves)
kenji lopez talks about it here: [ marge( equipment-how-to-buy-a-wok-which-wok-is-the-best)
hmm ... did he become a father recently?
gnd falls into boomer humor, it doesn't look like him
first the casseroles, now the woks! where will it end! ??!
but ... i'm in favor of bill 21, but i find myself more qs fans than any other party.
this is fucking great. i've never been a huge fan of gnd or qs, but respect for calling out legault today and for this.
i don't know what gnd has against monarchs, i like these butterflies.
if you want to update your "caq" tags on res it's at the bottom.
it gives a whole new meaning to the term pan-sexual ...
would legault be racist? because the * wok * is of chinese origin?
quebec sometimes disappoints me, but it remains my quebec no matter what, and it needs the love of all of us to become better.
the "adhesion" in the url, is you a pun on the fact that it is a non-stick pan?
maybe we should have quiet revolution part two: electric boogalo instead of the woks
it doesn't look like a wok.
idk what the hell is going on, but i see wok and i immediately like this guy
there's nothing better than a wok to make a pad thai
without context, the photo seems like a threat.
gerboire that there is salt here. it seems that you absolutely have to put your sense of humor away the second you go into politics.
legault himself may have found it funny, tse
gnd: discover new levels of cringe every day!
it seems to eat it often from the wok ...
he uses his every week… yeah he bought it 2 weeks ago…. there is still the “price tag” on it
this wok has never been used i think
ah 'political' ... the perfect anagram for 'cries of stupidity from cave people who should be troglodyte'.
"to try to create another quebec"
but that's the problem, our quebec, we love it. we don't want a new vision that replaces our culture for a multicultural melting pot that erases us.
nothing to help us take it seriously
serieux, quebec solidaire lost me when they accepted gnd in their ranks.
a beautiful gang of woke from the faculty of hate acience of uquam. he is an opportunist. chiale, chiale, chiale and does not offer a solution that holds up. he comes from a very wealthy background and i doubt his sincerity to offer a better world to quebecers.
i have much more respect for mrs. masse and mr. khadir than he ... even if i do not always agree with them, their sincerity is eye-popping and their life course as personal as professional confirms it to me.
i am afraid for the future of this party.
i always wonder why gnd exists. somebody knows? such a pocket joke can not exist ?!
uneasy the gag.
are you the one who makes the boomer ads for the maxi coudonc?
a woke that treats a woke of woke, it's still very funny
i do not recognize myself in the caq but certainly not in qs either honestly.
i am neither conserved nor comrade. i am a pro-independence activist, both have their faults.
the caq has the support of a plurality of the pi population if it would turn sovereignist, that could strongly pass, but they prefer to deal with ottawa pi always have nothing.
somehow the population supports to always lose with this party there pi criss that it makes no sense.
pi qs is independentists on paper but it is highly debatable if they are for real and then they are certainly not in a position to achieve independence, not to mention that historically apart from sol zanetti with his book which is very coherent ( and probably one of the brightest politicians of our age) the rest of the party has its patina and it seems to use it more contextually to earn points when it pays off.
somehow a party of the population supports always losing again here with this party there, no sense yet.
pi au pq ben unfortunately pspp its fly not high. it's a shame, i'm sure that with nantel it would still be a little better.
chalice.
i assure you all the same that i will not vote neither plq nor pcq. i'm still not berserk.
but criss i find it not going well bin a shop.
help me kkun.
it's so cringe, it looks like the same '' hello fellow kids ''.
legault did well.
how does he manage to do more boomer than legault? ciborium that's cringe
qs has succeeded in building what exactly since they have more than 2 deputies? (it's a real question not just sarcasm)
just before, he complained that legault called him woke, while failing to say that he had oddly compared him to duplessis. gnd, i want to love you but you are not making my life easier!
he thinks he's handsome
but what innocent…. me i recognize myself in the caq… not with this head to slap there !!
building soviet quebec with little gabriel matante manon. no thanks!
he's on facebook yes ...
ahah caq nasty us nice, vote for us
politics of appearances, of all parties ...
there could have been politics, just disguised advertisers.
air quebec and its matantes are not happy haha
edit: read before you downvote the lemmings
i have rice.
check legault kimchi from the mains
should ramen the debate to a better level ...
because right here, it steals bao.
the deputies to the national assembly should respect their hoisins.
we just found gnd's reddit account
you could at least credit the author of the facebook comment.
taoblié to talk about manon's repartee too
there will always be a quote from pérusse, pierrette!
the secret is the pure hazelnut necklace!
criss of veteran marcel, me after just 2 pins it's beubye drette din bras de murphy
oufff c stiff 3 skittles of 10.1 j not sure that the hazelnut tree is sufficient
what a man
[deleted]
take your upvote i laughed popiire !!
ok, is that referring to the other thread posted this morning in this sub with the guy talking about his battle with his drinking problem with the pandemic and his problems at work?
i would just like to understand.
me this summer at parc laf ❤️
[
me, that's how i heard about him ...
the snitch in the harry potter parody!
can a future municipal councilor in mont st-hillaire
force 10 forces you to force hard.
the strongest the bouève with an explosive mixture of salt, sugar and eno.
back home, marcel leboeuf is the chock noris québécois.
i love!
how funny it is
hoping that r / quebec does not become a fokenfruiter memes repost page
a bestseller at renaud-bray in saint-jérôme.
three pins of force 10
marcel must surely make bags.
is there any way you can give a boiler full of upvotes to my post there 👌
"a different world" tse
and immediately i think of the old lestupidshow video where harry potter tries to grab marcel leboeuf.
the secret is to lean against a door frame made of pure hazelnut.
do you also have bleue dry and dr. dolittle / nigaud de professeur evenings?
morpheus' irish cousin?
murphy's law, in the sense that it's going to go wrong?
i am going to call raoul in the large white telephone.
it'll take a packet of bacon to counterbalance
it is enough if your beer is brewed and aged in a pure hazelnut barrel
his daughter is very fine
i think it's just funny.
yeh, me too i don't understand that this post is at the top while i feel r / outoftheloop
lafond park?
same !
first thing i thought too!
[a series of essential videos from the history of web-queb] (
the link will take you directly to marcel leboeuf's bottle, but i recommend starting with the first one:
[harry potter 1](
[harry potter 2](
[harry potter 3](
[harry potter 4](
[harry potter 5](
long live * the stupid show *
personally i prefer force 8
mmmmmmmmm the right toppe
unclear instructions, i hung myself from the pure hazel wood door frame with my pure hazel collar. fortunately, i had a pure hazel stool under my feet.
[malade](
it's him hahah
it was meant to be a slang for morpheus, but murphy's law would indeed apply completely after 2 pins
you know da way
but ... who commissioned an expert? it will still be expensive ...
lafontai park?
ouiii
i burped a nasty disgust
*starts clicking tongue*
a quality meme that died too quickly
next to rue st joseph?
i highly doubt that cinemas in general will open if they can't sell food, can't play movies at night because of the curfew, and in addition have to limit the number of people in theaters.
maybe i'm wrong, but i would say guzzo is not going to reopen right away
who is it that goes to the movies in the middle of the day and doesn't buy popcorn?
the ti-old
who is it that goes to the museum?
the ti-old
who is it who goes to mass and not to the gym?
the ti-old
who is it who goes to bed at 8 p.m. at night?
the ti-old
who is it who consumes québécor's disinformation all day long and does not understand anything about science and logic?
the ti-old
who is it who loves to go fooling around at jean coutu and go out and buy scratchies at the convenience store twice a day?
the ti-old
who are the only ones who are at risk for covid and who should be the only ones locking themselves in their homes?
everyone except the old ones looks like
it would be really hot if he didn't open. perhaps that would be the little slap that legault would need to realize the change in people's opinion.
theaters don't sell movies, they sell popcorn
the bulk of the bill goes to the machine. 100% within the first month of a movie.
who cares about the cinemas everyone is sick of listening to movies we've been doing just that for 1 year
i believe that every entrepreneur has ample right to complain.
yep, well i don't understand why theaters can't reopen until they are done. they don't even sell popcorgne in addition.
the cinemas open, but not the gyms.
no, but cuddly that it's cave.
there are reasons on several points anyway
look at the state of his cinema, his ruined tomb. we are talking about a guy who does not put a cent in his business, nothing is maintained, the cinema guzzo is the only place where i have heard cases of accidents (including me) at a cinema, we have seen rats more than once and other vermin. the only reason i was going to be younger was to do 3-4 back to back movies because the employees under pay were getting stuck.
i understand entrepreneurs wanting to have a chance to survive the pandemic but his emptying business can go bankrupt. i much prefer cineplex.
legault recommended to go see la déesse des mouches à feu with her children lol probably one of the most trash movies i have seen in my life in terms of seeing young people acting like a real asshole
ridiculous this food ban
they only have to whine until friday and monday the government will change its mind.
the biggest mystery is why not the theaters too.
here is a blue basket: local businesses, can make a profit without selling food, etc.
the federal and provincial governments make "deals" that benefit companies outside the country (netflix, disney, etc.). these, i do not understand them ...
more mardy distractions and no public comment on vitamin d
as much as i understand the owners of whining cinemas and as much as i understand legault on this. it's hard to say that the restaurants are closed but to allow people to go and lock themselves in a room for 2 hours without eating masks.
what about restaurants in shopping centers on the other hand?
stopped going to the cinema years ago unless it’s an awesome new sci-fi (star wars) or fantasy (lord of the rings/the hobbit) release. 
my home is the cinema. much better price and way more comfortable 👍🏻
to say that in april i saw people with a short-term vision congratulating the caq in almost all the news on facebook and some even going so far as to say that they should almost automatically be re-elected. 1 year later it must eat their stockings.
"i was not able to have the spring break canceled like ontario because the unions manage the province more than i do, so i decided to open theaters everywhere to at least have something to do. give us money through taxes. "
"the restaurants have been complaining that the cinemas are going to sell food so no food for the cinemas, we could have reopened the restaurants too but there, the cases are down and they would continue to be so no matter how hard i am. remove "
"the cinemas will probably not open if i subsidize them for loss of income so we will subsidize the popcorn. you have understood correctly, the money from your taxes is used more to give baths to the person in chsld, it is used now my guidelines without common sense. "
what movie will play? i na po sti
is yes!
we all know it very well, as soon as the lights go out and the film starts, people take off their masks ...
seriously, who gives a fuck about guzzo ?! the only importance that this dude has is that which tva and radio-can give him.
guzzo can whine as much as he wants. we don't care if you have a rich man who would be less rich. it is the independent rooms and simply smaller that are to be pitied. i hope that the claps of quebec will survive, precisely.
criss that he pisses me off. even the montreal economic institute has commented positively on its public outings.
serious the legendary agility of the private sector that takes the field quite quickly eh. no popcorn and it's psychodrama and the media tour to lament. it can't be reinvented quickly quickly.
could quite do more sessions during the day and adjust the price of tickets to ensure that the costs are covered.
honestly, i have a hard time imagining how movie owners are going to be able to make a profit with so many constraints.
guzzo had not been informed by the government in advance that it would be without food ... knowing how the cinema business makes its money, they stand no chance with the restrictions. it's cheaper for them to stay closed with no income than to open ...
maybe le clap?
just to play pro-life movies
ye full of cash guzzo have caliss, even if the guzzo cinemas would close they would be full who eats the mard, in addition to the price that it costs to go to the cinema 🖕
i remember when the hypochondriac clowns announced their curfew in january. fizbo legault had said: "80% of hospitalizations are people aged 65 and over and they are 20% of the population".
i thought i was dreaming and that finally we would have a little common sense, but he added "i don't want to target the elders and violate their rights directly on the other hand, but here you have to protect yourself".
logical conclusion: we violate the rights of everyone instead and we admit that there is nothing scientific in the curfew. a piece of anthology. a classic.
who is it that has a high voter turnout rate?
and for whom we closed the economy, put containment and curfew ....
am i the only one to have read this on the theme of spongebob squarepants?
i do not understand that no old man is rebelling that our youth is so much harassed and all that in their name. i can't believe this whole generation is that selfish!
i'm going to betray my old age but i had [that tune] ( in mind
maybe it would do you good to go to the museum.
we begin to understand much better the choices of governments when we first understand that the elderly vote * much more * than any other social segment.
i look forward to the day when you will be a ti-old in your turn ...
if the old folks listened to misinformation, they would be the ones calling for an end to the health restrictions. i think you are planning.
0% that he opens in my opinion, the only way he can open is with food or subsidies to grease the legs of cinemas and "force" them to open.
i don't see how that would change people's opinion? i'm not in favor of opening cinemas, so if they stay closed, all the better?
slaps; legault eat enough of it these days and has been doing so for a long time with the unions ...
... nothing is lost as far as he is concerned; he passes them on to us !!! 👋👋👋👋👋👋👋👋👋👋👋👋
that's why they don't care that the world goes to see 2-3 films: they sell more popcorn ...
this is the old model, and again it depended on the distributor. indeed, big names like wb or disney could say "we lend you the last blockbusters, but for the first 4 weeks, it stays in your biggest room and we take 90% of the receipts (maybe 100%, that's surely already arrived, ouch), the following weeks 60%, then 40%, etc ".
but the problem is that the blockbusters are especially strong the first two weeks, and then the audience drops drastically. of course, theater operators (especially smaller cinemas) could not afford this kind of "deal". more nested movies tend to keep audiences constant (but smaller) for longer periods of time.
now distributors take a% fix of total revenue per theater. it doesn't matter how long a movie is showing.
from what i understand.
it's time to change your business model then.
... in fact he's a good point christie, that.
hahaha bravo, i wondered why this news did not succeed in making me happy but you put your finger on it!
next government idea:
"* we know that you are tired of not seeing your friends and family. i spoke to horacio about it and we agreed to give you something. i am therefore happy to announce that the government will shortly make available an application to have real-time video discussions with your loved ones! it's going to be called the blue spittoon! for now, it just allows the link between two connections, either in video or audio but not both at the same time, but we have released 100 million to improve the system by 2023 *. "
especially true without the popcorn experience
mesant, could not me either!
geneviève guilbault looks hardcore.
"wwe diva guilbault talkin' smack"
manon massé - dan bigras with hair
dominique anglade - elrond
catherine fournier - tegan and / or sara
geneviève guilbault - klô pelgag
are you going to do federal politics too?
i admit that o'toole in long cut its going to be funny screeching.
with manon it's cheating, it looks like she was made for that.
catherine fournier pulls it off very well.
guilbault is in a glam metal band. from the 80s.
quality post
guilbault, it looks like she's coming out of a performance at mado's and is on her way to the stereo for the after party.
terrible day to have eyes. ayoye it stings.
you forgot to edit manon's photo
it's a terrible day to have eyes
unit 9
for those who want to know, the granny comes from the facebook page "the news in memes"
who is it at the bottom left?
it's excellent!
credit: the news in memes @lactumemes
guilbeault looks like a trans gothic emo.
massaged looks more feminine
wooo minute, since when méo has been in politics?
quiz: just one of these cups is a real longueuil cup.
hint: there are three zoomers and millennials in this image.
they look like characters from a xavier dolan movie.
it does them well
i just can't stop watching
i feel too attracted to the 3 non-manons. crazy eyes ... the curfew is in effect. 🤪
holy fuck it's screeching better with good women than with guys
manon looks like gerry boulet haha.
is longueuil ok?
anyone mind giving an english translation/description of what's up with this hairstyle? si'l vous plait?
be careful what you say, you'll get picked up.
[she hears everything.] ( )thvtjprdfx)
looks like marc denis with long hair. my word.
has anyone seen him smile that one?
klô pelgag on steroids.
omg i spat my drink out my nose!! 🤣
he's not the one who makes them, he stole them from l'actualité en memes on facebook. @lactumemes
the what?
catherine fournier is cute even mottée.
well yes, he removed the mustache!
catherine fournier
* the lights go out, and the music starts *
* yes pierre, the canadians have been docile tonight ... *
yes.
before googling her i thought she was trans-woman.
not easy to recognize without a hoodie!
isn't dorion the hoodie business?
i am a simple man, i see jean-lou, i upvote.
now district 31 investigator
top 10 rappers eminem is too afraid to diss
i take this opportunity to brag about an important moment in my life: i was at the recording!
my boyfriend always sings that, cool to see where it comes from haha
bruno gagné undercover for ss, colorized.
gonna tell my kids this was run-dmc.
seems that's what inspired mf doom to do food and action bronson to get into rap.
radio hell!
are or are all the radio actors hell? i like them well fat
* that's full swing in the rap *
crazy steep
jean-loup duval!
the song that gave andré ducharme the taste of hosting a cooking show
the years when the word "rap" was constantly inserted in the lyrics in case you couldn't guess the style. 🤪
cabbage hot dogs or bbq chicken would be good. i'm hungry there.
rapper with plastic wrap.
thank you i will have it in my head all day
can you help me with the lyrics?
what are the lines with the toes and ears?
ah radio hell - beautiful memory. i had a mega crush on the big girl .. i could remember her name. she was hot :)
how the fuck do i unsee this? 🤣
cult
racist and grossophobic.
unthinkable in 2021!
unless it's okay to laugh at fat people? i do not know anymore ...
jean-lou "the hot-dog" duval
it is now a little more ...
* aweille rap, rap, investigation report *
* little theo and nancy riopelle *
* aweille rap, rap, investigation report *
* phaneuf, cloutier, romano pis labelle *
#brag
it seemed to me that i heard you laughing back !!
[deleted]
accurate and you're like !!!! hahaha
michel charette (jean-lou) is in district role principal with carl 'the cat' charest is a computer nerd in district too !! the others ... i would have to do some research, but you also have robin aubert (leo) who is an excellent filmmaker !!!!
fou tight
or science :)
"like the ti stockings that are on your toes, like the? that come out of your ears"
rachel fontaine as maria lopez.
be lol
nice
labelle, is it because of the pays d'en haut, or is it still in district 31?
i'm pretty sure it was a sunday. but from my french lessons, i remember the syntax part of the questions well. example: we say '' was it? '' and not '' it was you ''
vincent gelinas is a cameraman at rds, camille has a big job at cossette communication. maria does more behind the camera. mr giroux died about 10 years ago. joclyne acts again.
edit: if you're curious about the team and the shootings, francois chénier went to jerr alain's podcast, great interview.
robin aubert produces les beaux malaises 2.0.
cool thanks
lebelle is the dude with the worst hair on tv.
the whole of the ussr did not have as many red flags ...
do i have stbbis?
ah, that i say it only afterwards, it is a surprise.
did he really say that ...? but how can you trust a mayoral candidate who doesn't even want to reveal what his previous jobs were?
i have formula e flashbacks all of a sudden ..
the most aberrant thing about it is that his excuse makes fucking nonsense.
he said "ah yeah i can't say the amounts because i signed confidentiality agreements" but at the same time he says that he will release the numbers if he is ever elected. what is it, if you're elected confidentiality agreements you don't care?
it makes no sense and the ti-denis is just trying to hide as long as possible that he got paid a lot of money by eric boyko of the stingray group to get back into politics and bring a baseball team back to montreal paid by. taxpayers.
i don't like valérie plante too much, but coderre is such a mess that i hope to see her win.
esti that nathalie normandeau looked like a jug this morning to defend this crosseur on this subject. liberal party one day, liberal party forever.
lol.
ya gained weight. probably because of the spaghetti suppers.
it's just like trump with his taxes
i can't wait to see him leave politics a second time after his loss, despite he caring so much for montreal. / eyeroll
does he think he's a living clickbait?
there is a little air of kim jong-il in this photo anyway.
yes but it is impossible to get around the center-town with all the world's words! 1 !! 1!
has china had enough? i guess with 1.4 billion inhabitants ...
1. he thinks that montreal is so curious to know how much he was paid and by whom, that they would be ready to elect him to find out
2. it sounds less bucked than just saying "no" and it allows him not to reveal all his private information unless he is elected
3. he doesn't want to reveal that he was paid very, very dearly by eric boyko, oddly, completely by chance, one of the guys who works really, really hard trying to get a baseball team back in montreal.
basically, ti-denis was given a big check to return to politics and win the mayoralty of montreal and (in particular) bring a baseball team to montreal at taxpayer expense so that his friends at groupe stingray can get on. put them in their pockets.
i'm not in montreal and despite everything in the "anyone except coderre" team. i'm a little influenced by infoman maybe but every time he opens his mouth it seems to be plugging in buzz words. his whole personality including his significant weight loss, false teeth and big dark glasses seems the result of marketing studies and consulting firms rather than a real desire to reinvent himself.
ok seriously what's up with that? i've read at least, minimum, without exaggeration, 59 variations of this just in the last week:
"i don't like valérie plante too much, but ..." or "i'm not too much of a fan of valérie plante, but ..."
is it a meme?
i can't quite understand what plante could have done so far to have detractors compared to any politician, as if he was some kind of crazy maniac who wants to eat children * to a point * where it is. necessary to specify that we do not like it just to talk about the fact that we do not like coderre?
are / r / quebec and / r / montreal so afraid to sound like "damn hippies who want to destroy roads and cars" and look like someone who ... - - * * shivers * * - ... * loves valérie plante *?
same for me
a boyfriend is a boyfriend, they have the same lawyer on top of that! (not really)
i had to change my post during his column, i had to swear non stop after the radio.
the noodles, he doesn't just have them in his mouth ...
[deleted]
> a real desire to reinvent itself.
should he be able to invent something new to start ...
> i can't quite understand what plante was able to do
cycla'b piss.
it clashes head-on with the sensitivities of the 450.
i love it! my dream is that there are no more private vehicles on the roads. the future is public transport! it just doesn't make sense that there are so many tanks.
i don't know why you all create this dichotomy "hippies in love with trees and bixi" vs "the dudes of the south shore who want to have parking when they turn to mtl".
i'm pretty (read: very) left. valérie plante inspires me absolutely nothing, except that she has the big advantage of not inspiring me with contempt, and of not wanting to reign like elvis gratton on 514.
john james?
clearly deserved on top of that. apparently, safeguards do not protect against committee decisions.
[deleted]
the industrial sector on the other side is almost inaccessible on foot by bike or by public transport. unless you like to cross 6 voices of highway on foot playing leapfrog with guards or take a detour 18 kilometers. i must have gone there once without having a tank. and i don't recommend 0/10
that said the one in ny is much worse
wow : 
    quebec city's car dealership catastrophe (88%, 732 votes)
    queens's highway gore disgrace (12%, 103 votes)
i voted for the one in quebec out of solidarity but in all honesty the one in new york seems really worse to me.
the one a little further on charest is even worse, you can't get there without walking on the boulevard.
the stop in queens looks really worse to me, it's like there is a bus stop on a metro freeway ramp.
i have the impression that the results of the votes are nonsense, some say that we lead others it is ny. when i voted, queens had over 880 votes, we around 120. i should have taken a screenshot ...
this is 823 quebec, 112 queens ... weird.
edit 2: every time i check it's different numbers ... whatever.
my favorite tip:
“; the local newspaper‘s story boosting québec’s bid in the contest to find “l’arrêt d’autobus le plus désolant.” (wow, it sounds so much more harsh in french!) “
87% lets gooo
i have the impression that we will not win, we just have 90 votes against 500, but i still voted, i did my part for my province!
> quebecois
the stop in queens looks worse but there is no bus sign so for technical fault i gave the point to the 18 (also because i want us to win lol)
oh my god i've been at this stop before, we were like 15 and we were trying to get to the quillorama, we weren't on the right side of the road and we walked until there was no of place to walk, which was planet x, so we waited there in the parking lot watching the old folks go to planet x while someone came to pick us up.
post to r/canada
hell yeah, for having already taken the bus at this stop, it's terrible to shit. they should have taken the photo in late spring winter with the brown slush
it's much worse in the winter and more lol. you're forced on the snowbank if you don't want to be in the lane.
[deleted]
ahhhh ... quebec! on this subject :
[
90% of the votes for the 18th!
i took 18 for a while and i'm not even sure i knew it existed.
québe- * what? *
makes me think of one in the industrial district of duberger that has no sidewalk so in winter you just have to hope that the cats help the other way while you wait. when it rains it's * super * fun.
"cégep = québec's version of a community college (kind of)"  
wow.
i like the bus stops on the edge of montreal's new express-bike network. the little ladies with their walkers must descend by putting their feet directly in the cycle path without seeing what is going on there and in addition are in a hurry to do it quickly because the boulevard has reached one lane and it honks back.
vote done!
also note that she waits with both feet in the bike path. which means that this stop, in addition to being a nullity for its users, is a danger for cyclists who must bypass them on the adjacent boulevard. 1 stone 2 birds!
sweet jesus are you fucking serious?
while we're at it can we vote that the stm bus system est à chier.
what happens when the committee never takes public transit ...
no one in quebec really says la bus, we rather say 'a bus. the l is silent.
i don't want to break your dreams, but in montreal we also say 'la<num de ligne> 'even if we say' the bus'.
i am from montreal, i say "a bus" but "a bus", and i say "the 18" when i speak of the bus line which passes on beaubien ... as far as i know, "a bus" it is common everywhere in quebec. it's just "the bus" which is a bit more specific to quebec city.
2131 against 324 at the moment ... we torch!
the people who take the bus on frank carrel in winter are also sick estates. when you take the bus to go to gare du palais, sure, but if you go from the side towards the uni, you're crazy.
i took this bus there for 2 years and it is today that i have a flash of how mongolian this bus is hahahah
crémazie is still crossable on foot. it looks like a kind of service road along the 15 à laval. good luck not to get into it.
if it changes every time, they have eg a bug in their results display
i like the fact that the blog keeps lots of quotes in french.
on the one hand, the other stop looks frankly like a nightmare, we are in the major lines here.
on the other hand, the photo of the quebec bus stop, with a parked tank in front, half on the cutter, with a wacky waving inflatable arm flailing tubeman on the edge, it's such a perfect photo.
it's the opposite. you misread.
it's the opposite in fact
600 for us 90 for eu
no they will vote for the stop in queens lol
in winter, half of the stops on this line are for the nuts. you have the choice between waiting on charest ouest or in the snow bank. you have the choice between waiting in the snowbank or on frank carrel to have water pitched in your face.
her boyfriend in fact. but that's a detail.
isn't that bad?
when is the bus arriving?
no, you say the bus. source: i lived in quebec for 3 years.
edit: thanks for the downvotes, you say the same bus. the people of quebec say the bus.
the world of quebec also seem to be in denial that they say the bus.
there is a section below the interchange between 40 / 15south / 520 which is kind of no man land weird with a bus lane that looks a lot like this.
or it's purely random.
ah, let me see the results, i'll trust you, i don't want to lose hehe
oh yeah ?? cool first
a madne i was making quebec city-ottawa, and about halfway i stopped in a restaurant of a popular chain that makes poutine. i wasn't expecting much but wanted to try the same. (ok, it was a tim, but there was poutine with potato wedges on the menu!) while the girl is preparing my 'poutine', i hear her asking her colleague where the cheese is ... "there could be," said the other. take some grated cheese. " i'm disappointed, but what do you want, there's more, there's more. the girl puts the cheese. but not even 15 seconds later, the colleague says "there is finally it, there it was!" "ok, cool, thank you," says the girl who serves me. and she gives me my semblance of poutine with the potato wedges and the grated cheese. without doing it again, or even wondering if i wanted the squick squick cheese.
i have never felt so insulted in my life. (i didn't mean to be karen so i didn't say anything. but i faced eugene levy in the same picture.)
it's annoying to see people who think it's just in english canada that they put grated cheese in their poutine. i have often eaten canadian style poutine in quebec and not everyone can afford poutines with cheese squish squish, especially in rural areas with high poverty rates.
so that's cheese after all .... i'm not sure to eat it yet.
like in a hot poutine !!
** if i can play the devil's advocate: ** more and more, canadians have poutines that make sense on a regular basis. yes, there is still this kind of fries / sauce on sale, but many companies now have the right cheese.
currently i live in london and we only have this kind of poutine, even in the so-called 'canadian' pub in the city center 😢
source: 
"fucked it up", littéralement
hard to give credit to the author of the meme ...
the news in meme on facebook.
i am a doctor who wonders about the nutritional value of poutine. i eat it because it's good! but what is the long term impact of all these lipids on our arteries ????
honestly it surprises me that no one is suing tim hortons for selling it as a "poutine"
there is nothing wrong with asking for better service as long as it is asked in the right way. "excuse me, i saw you had the right cheese and i would really like to have this one more, if you don't mind that would be really appreciated. (with a smile of course)"
lol le fromage squick squick. but honestly what do you expect from tim's all they know is frozen doughnuts and cheap coffee with syrup and margarine. is tim horton's better in quebec?
i live in a fairly poor rural location and honestly, cheese poop isn't much more expensive by weight than mozzarella. the world is cheap on potatoes.
the only place where i am received is a pizzeria, and i consider that it was me who should have taken something else
there is a so fries! in lyon. when i went there, we had a choice of two cheeses: the "en grain" or the "comme ici". the latter being grated cheese. i don't know what kind of person chose this.
it's the same price though
what do you think makes the squick squick? divine providence?
chef's sauce
it's true, i even saw a video where an american chef goes crazy about it. he said that cheese curds were found almost everywhere and that using mozzarella was an insult.
i've been there before! i was so disappointed. but then i went to the expat grocery store (australia / canada / south africa) and bought some vachon wt cakes from kraft dinner so it calmed me down.
grannies are intellectual property now?
i didn't see him there. i'm not on this group. i will edit my post to add the credit.
ps: we can suggest it without doing his asshole either.
* it is estimated that since 1997, quebecers have absorbed the equivalent of lake superior in brown sauce. *
wouldn't it be up to you to provide the answer?
between that, stress, diabetes, hydrogenated fats, tobacco, cheapo cheese in all the prefabs, i think you shouldn't worry too much about the occasional poutine. either way, worrying about hypertension ...
you must be the fun in a party ...
> is not continued
ouch, my eyes ...
i'm ashamed but i like the poutine from pfk and st hubert bbq.
my social anxiety would have made me explode, lol
or, “excuse me i ordered a poutine, i would like to have a poutine please ...”
no. the halcyon days of my youth when tim's was good are long gone everywhere except dubai. that's right, you have to fly 14 hours to get a half decent tim's donut and coffee.
but is it fresh and plentiful enough for the population to regularly use it?
my only knowledge of the vagaries of it comes from the hottest guys from midnight poutine to burning man vla 9, but it seems (it was?) really hard to find "real" squick-cheese poo. squick in the usa because pasteurization kills squick-squick, so our poop cannot cross the border because it is technically a "raw milk product," thing highly forbidden in the states (meanwhile the waitresses of * diners * ask you what cooking you want for your burger, scoop-moé). they were dealing with one american producer in particular who had a pasteurized product sufficiently similar to the quebec experience despite being in the middle of the desert. to have tasted it, the substitution was indeed "correct" but still 1000 times preferable to grated cheese, so do not get too bogged down in details either.
it's just not having a radish iq and acknowledging the author's work and creativity, instead of leading the way to karma reddit.
this is worrying for real. a doctor who does not know the impact of fat on the human body? it's not like a poutine every once in a while will change anything or dramatically increase your risk of cardiovascular disease. besides, sugar plays a much bigger role in atherosclerosis than fat.
it takes a “t”, of course!
i'm the two
i really like the one at mcdonald's, so i can't judge: p
you're not supposed to eat this every day either!
if you want karma r / sth not going to give much
hey u / hardbrain, you should steal your stuff, you got hacked, there's an asshole posting crap on your behalf.
sure, but what i mean is “is it available at the local grocery store?”.
people don’t usually go out of their way to find products that aren’t available where they buy everything else. 
the town might have curds are their local dairy producer, or at a specialty shop like butchers where you can get select cuts of meat, but if it’s not at the big name chain store theyre more likely to grab the next best thing as a substitute.
québec has been the only place in canada i’ve lived with such a wide variety of cheeses. everywhere else had the basics, cheddar, mozzarella, swiss, parmesan, and maybe provolone, with only one or two types of each. here at my local iga, there are seemingly hundreds.
most places (in quebec), you can find cheese curds at the grocery store and at the convenience store. it's super easy to find.
where is it?
came to make an offering
bring us the "649" ?? canadian tire recus? lol
[deleted]
i admit, it is certainly jeff petry with his red eyes!
bottom right, is it a fine?
the only offering that works is cacanidian money drawn
amen
i just realized, to make the canadian our official religion, we only need an official helmet! as george carlin said, each religion begins to come together and wear something on its head that represents their religion.
other than a hockey helmet or henri's tuque, i don't see it.
with the game they played yesterday is nobody raging roundhouse kick?
you can recognize it by its fiery gaze and its faithful nature valley bar.
it looks like a burning man.
it looks a lot like the face of the glorious yesterday when the lightning hit them
but, the government said we are secular ...... 😉
pray that we are done with the foolish neighbors who scream their lives until 2 a.m. because a millionaire shoved a can of rubber into a net.
i did not take the photo, but from what i read: hochelaga, next to the metro in front of place valois.
put some in, the current offerings are hard in taboo.
especially since the tender bar is a nature valley.
no, a lotto ticket. it looks like the loto-québec logo.
amen
too bad we can't add a poll function. i vote for the pre-visor protective helmet. and we all wear it with a mouthguard (s).
it deserves to come out if there is laundering.
2 am i don't think he was watching buddy hockey
[deleted]
[deleted]
i understand you! it should end soon.
to tu dkoi cont le pepsy
if it's a salty sweet it's acceptable, a crunchy on the other hand it's a matter of the ch score in its own net.
yep, clearly grateux.
jte confirms that the last victory was still that at two o'clock in the morning.
i'm not in montreal! it's not a loathing of hockey either.
i have no problem with people who are enthusiastic about sports. i have a problem with brainless people who regress when their team wins or loses
it takes one from time to time when everyone is very hot and emotional
there is even the air fret
must say that i never buy grateux
tickets in montreal on the other hand ....
my man, we've been waiting for this since '93
to use ms. chagnon's famous words: not so much.
you do no one a service
if giving your opinion was to do someone a favor, there would be a nasty gang who wouldn't say much
you wouldn't complain to me
i don't read this kind of magazines. it goes quite ten feet over my head. i wonder who their target audience is. there must surely be people who buy it, i see this kind of magazine for sale everywhere.
ah yes, veronique cloutier. the epitome of misery.
having worked for 2 years in an ultramarde at night and 5 years in a grocery store, i went through all these reviews and it's always the same esti de marde a week it's véronique cloutier a fulfilled mother, he shows his house of 15 million and why his life is better than yours, the week after it is: vero still in the shock of his difficult childhood because of his father !!!!
is she filled or troubled? plugged in you sti
the most interesting is the nationnal enquirer, because at least they don't take themselves seriously and for months there was history with batboy running away from the police (he even went to the moon in pickup)
you speak as if véro called the "allo vedettes" while crying and saying "aye you have to talk about me, i must be the person who had the roughest in quebec during the year."
the job at véro is literally to be loved and to be seen so when a potty magazine calls you because they want to do an interview on how you lived your year 2020, bin criss you do it interview because that's your job.
i am ready to put $ 50 that vero is fully aware that her little rich man's problems are fuckall important. i'm even willing to say that if you check the full interview, surely 3/4 of her interview is about her and her family being very lucky compared to the majority and admiring the workers. worse health.
the day that the matantes will start to realize that we should wedge ourselves of the private life of the stars, it is the day that its magazines will stop doing interviews of the same. but don't hold your breath, it's not going to happen soon.
the prince bought himself a house of 10 million + and véronique cloutier must have a bank account with 7 number if it is not 8 so their "difficult year" ...
we will recall that the year began with the scandal of canadian taxpayers paying for the security of these two, who no longer wanted to be in the royal family.
it is that everything is relative eh. when your standard of living increases, well eventually it becomes your daily life and you live as much little misery as you lived before in my opinion ... and also i imagine that being rich and famous that comes with a lot of inconveniences and difficulties. particular anxiety.
not to be out of pocket and especially not to defend gossip magazines, but véronique cloutier says it was hell for her foundation which helps autistic adults who have no resources. at one point, she may cry. it's still not a little whim of a tv princess ...
i think there are other reasons to be offended in life.
the hypocrisy of the world who complain that the rich should not complain about covid, when they themselves are very rich compared to people in several other countries of the world (we have pku, health insurance, employment insurance, etc).
the wealth gap between véronique cloutier and the average quebecer is as big as between the average quebecer and a poor village in the third world.
if you like to read gossip about the royal couple, from a foreign monarchy which burned our farms, raped our women and hanged our patriots, you have nothing in the coconut. really nothing.
nice gatekeeping.
"the rich may not face the challenging social isolation"
as if being rich kept people safe from mental illness, among other things related to social isolation.
the misery of the rich
imagine being stuck in your mansion on your 100 acre land with a private pond and trails in the woods while your servants do your errands for you. it must not be easy to live in criss! i'm writing these lines crying for them ... it's just too tough esti!
at the same time, just because you're rich / famous doesn't mean you can't have a hard time.
for example (although i don't care about the stars) are you going to be less compassionate if a person loses their father just because that person is famous?
ah, those poor rich ...
are we not talking about instagrammers or other stupid influencers on facebook? same bastards of stupid bullshit. matantes one day, matantes always, monuncle too. quebeckers are especially not the elite you think, bunch of chauvinist cellars. look at the bunch of born mallets udder ostis for ti-loaves around you and you will see! i worked en masse in customer service and osti that we fâ hard icitte tokébek. lol
did you hear bieber's new hit? "i'm so lo-oooo-oooo-ooo-onely".
oh too bad you had too much money too young.
question of perceptuality, it is not because you are rich that you are happy and that 2020 has been easy for you. on the other hand, if i were rich and famous like the quebec or english royal family, i wouldn't go to a magazine to complain about my misfortunes. my message would be more "well yes, it's not easy for anyone" if i were them but hey; you have to sell magazines even in a pandemic.
\ # we're all in the same boat
personally, i do not read this kind of reviews. but ... for my part, i would like to share my opinion: being rich is never going to protect people from tragedies or mental health problems. even though i am not a fan of some wealthy celebrities in this world, if i see one in danger (choking, badly injured etc) i will help them pcq i have my first aid card and a life is a life, but honestly i'm a bit crazy about their daily life 😂. in short: i’m crazy about their lives but they’re human like all of us
seriously when i saw the frontpage of the magazine in véro while passing the grocery store checkout i was in tbnk.
i work in hospital rehabilitation with people who literally have to relearn how to move after strokes and accidents. i confirm that for them, it was hell 2020.
personally, there are a lot of celebrities in this world who have lost my total respect this year.
fuck no
not at all
i don't know who is reading this mard honestly
i think the bye bye with its marie mai skit summed up my feelings about these celebrities who don't know how to close their doors while everyone else had many other concerns during the pandemic. the worst part is that these newspapers only enrage people against the rich.
fuck them
the only thing i see is an article on vincent léonard and his majestic beard!
apart from that, just the big drain
there is nothing in these magazines that is not already on the internet, it's just copied and pasted interviews that these people gave to bonsoir bonsoir let's say, the title is still cheap clickbait
as for the royal family i think it's just stuff translated from the english canadian tabloids who are much more interested in the "royals", it fills the empty space
i could not tell you but i believe that my mind of curiosity asks me to buy it in order to verify the words and to judge of it thus
very happy to see the anti-bullshit shift which is becoming more democratic
revu véro: beauty special
beauty interview with véro
i don't know how i would have made it without a video game, long live eternal doom
i especially pity all those who have to do the thing
who are these people ?
i like you quebeckers !! i should consider emigrating to you.
and happy new year !
unbelievable, so if i'm rich and famous my sanity is better by default? / s no it is the reverse; they have it harder than others
good week...
the news guy announced a spectacular premiere
the stupid singer would have secretly married the day before yesterday
while we are brewing shit all over the planet
people like the little gossip of the jet set
hey, give me a break
before i die of laughing
it doesn't take papineau's head to realize
that we miss the metro
they will not have a certain moé! these reviews insult me and enrage me.
the salary does not prevent viruses from pissing off. why do people ridicule her for that? it's a bit unfair, it doesn't matter. do you think money has recourse to everything?
[mons yeux]( 👀
i don't think "meg and harry" know what a tough year is.
c what the moral? if you're rich you can buy happiness so can't you find that hard covid shit?
i'm not a vero fan, but i find this kind of jealousy really unhealthy.
wow jealousy is high. whether they are rich or not, the pandemic can affect them very well anyway. it's still humans, guys. even if i had 36 million, if my family died, i wouldn't be in a better mood than other middle-class citizens. for a moment, you have to stop being jealous and think about the situation, not about money. yeah, there's probably a big bank account they've been working for. do something with your life instead of complaining about yourself and spreading your jealousy on others.
i wonder if the people who criticize are the same who will work while waiting for the results of their covid tests? stay at home, it's really not complicated! :-)
there's a special place in hell for these hypocrites there
i have worked for a long time in a departement where the clientele is less and less buying, it is especially the women, between 30 and 60 years pi 2/3 leaf through the magazine in the dep without buying it.
i made the return invoices pi man sometimes it was just copy paste the receipt of order because in the month we had sold zero.
sad for the jobs that are going to lose but you know ... spas the national geographic here
it is the same audience as od.
the world that the only thing they discuss in life is gossip.
the worst i have seen was a meme magazine that on the cover featured gossip for a character in a tva series.
gender the character is fictive men calisse you still more his potins
the problem is, you don't have to buy this kind of magazine to get sickened by the life of the goddamn stars.
you open radio-canada. a star explains to you the artists' difficulties during confinement.
you change jobs. a star explains the difficulties of being a parent in confinement. why haven't they interviewed ordinary parents? or representatives of parents' associations? no, we need a star, who earns more than 99% of quebecers, who has a house as big as a school, and probably a nanny and a home teacher.
you change jobs. stars talk about the vaccine together. why stars? just shut up ...
you change jobs. the stars do not give their opinion, but they play together (always the same) a sick game show. calvary ...
and then, it's always like that, not just with covid-19 ... you're an actor or singer. your job is to entertain the world. who cares about your opinion on politics and even more your private life.
me neither but it piqued my curiosity!
i admit buying it sometimes, it's a toilet reading. it passes the time.
when i worked at the archambault, we were a couple of employees reading this during the break, it made us laugh.
yes regine! i don't know you but i love it!
régine, i love you in osti.
it has the merit of being clear.
régine laurent is a national treasure and she must be protected at all costs.
and run for prime minister!
i vote for her
pu capabe
who has images of anti-axx demonstrations near schools? i want to see the quality of the nobel prices there
it's time to stop paying attention to antivax. laughable minority, get vaccinated or stay at home.
does the bill specify pro / anti-vax / anti-measures protests? i agree 100% with the law but must not at the same time prevent teachers and health workers from being able to demonstrate in connection with other problems in front of the workplace.
wow i love this lady
school and hospitals please!
can we put her at the head of a federal party right away, please? no matter what, we will adapt ...
10/10
i love!
[in reference. article from la presse] ( special-law.php? utm_source = dlvr.it & utm_medium = twitter)
yeees!
haha it's not just bergie who is able to capab!
team regine.
really, that was just so much the best way to get the message across.
yeah!
/ u / savevideo
bahaha "pro-covid", i almost didn't notice
this bill should include a few years to keep mario roy company for f. amelaga
i'm in love!!!
<3
so well said, screeching peace to our children.
100% agree with not shame people who don't want to be vaccinated. but also 100% agree with régine. the world that disrespects others are fake revolutionaries ... just a gang of misanthropists ... they should go into hiding if they hate the world that much. and if, on the contrary, they just have the female dog in this global chaos, then they grow up and realize that scaring children will never console them!
❤️
this is where we will see, via the vote of claire samson, if duhaime's boots follow his lips.
poetry to my ears
[deleted]
hot take, making a law like that gives so much ammunition for the anti vax and the eric duhaime of this world. "wow check how lego is anti democratic, it now prevents us from demonstrating, a constitutional right", i see it coming already
i am pro freedom and therefore i do not think that anti-vax demonstrations should be banned. rather, i suggest adopting a law that goes in the direction of freedom and allow any citizen to be able to slap covidiot demonstrators in the face without legal repercussions.
[removed]
when health workers or teachers go to union demonstrations, they will have to go elsewhere too!
tyler perry been hitting the gym?
it's cute, we can feel the emotion. but let's do it maybe not with the feelings on a decision of same? 🤷
lol. villeray beach. my man !
i'm sure you weren't expecting this jsoué lô
[here is that wikipedia page.] (
regine laurent majority
next minister of health?
"crisse me patience with you if you are able."
-régine laurent
or darwin prize
it shocks, the world want to see, adds advertising, it sells, makes money.
the problem is the news providers are always looking for the most difficult thing to get immediate attention. fuck the jdem in particular.
the title of pro-covid confuses me a bit. is it people for vaccines and distancing worse all, or it's anti vax world as you say
> laughable minority
\ * chef kiss \ *
laughable minority
i like
in the version proposed by marwah rizqy
[
it is very clearly aimed at demonstrations around primary / secondary schools and it is specifically related to covid 19, measures or vaccination.
team up with yfb: “make yourself grow a column and criss me patience”
"the legislative text will be presented to the council of ministers on wednesday. it will be tabled the next day. mr. legault wants it to be adopted the same day and asks for the cooperation of the opposition to achieve it. he needs its unanimous support. but if a deputy opposes the government's intentions, he will present an exceptional procedural motion - commonly known as the gag order - which allows him to force the passage of a bill, after debate cut short. "
check out the crazy conservative party pissing off about it.
anyone have a link for the coleslaw dossier?
the thing is, this exaggeration of reality is still too close to reality ... the real cover is that ridiculous 😔
debt problem? so much the better!
it tastes like patamogle
credit: @j_m_martel on twitter
the 60-page dossier, osti, i laughed well!
it looks legit ...
bad times sensionnalist, jdm is not better than fox news
mourrial's journal must come back!
same article, different dimension.
bring us the mourréal st-cicroche newspaper! my kingdom for a return of the mourréal journal!
is it trashy, quebecor. this is probably the cover of next thursday in preview ...
moé there, if there's one thing that i hate, it's international politics, feature articles, worse analyzes. bin it falls bin. in the newspaper of mourial, there is none!
it is true that it looks like glue
this same worthy of mourriale made my day (as funny and absurd as the real one)
i don't want to like because we have 420 likes.
the whole cover looks like a joke
holly shit!
“it tastes like plasticine” xd
big ouuf. for justin 😂
let's say that it seems that we are not too much of that, at the journal de montreal. we line up, we obviously line up ...
mdrrrrr no rest for trudeau!
print this and i am your hawker !!!!
"it tastes like plasticine" xd
i believed it until the 60-page dossier on coleslaw
wow, it feels like on facebook!
60 pages had me rolling haha xd
very important file
creamy for me please
man, you just have to rip the plastic and go with the guide, no need to pay.
no but reddit has a sub just for the r / potatosalad potato salad
message the jocko willink
\ -a message from real estate market agents
r / patamogle
i suddenly exhaled a mixture of gas through my nose while reading your comical comment. take my posi-vote!
don't forget martineau's apt comment that the crémeuse is a manifestation of the islamo-leftism of the montreal wokes.
when you realize that this newspaper has not been on the press council for some time, you realize that they are not there for journalism. considering that it is the most read entertainment magazine in quebec. it poses some concern!
agreed. but national post is pretty rotten too. sensationist propaganda sucks.
one of the things that struck me the most was the transition of last hour from a slightly sensationalist news magazine to a pure gossip magazine worthy of what is done in the uk. at least they don't have as much media presence as jdem.
sad because the jdem was the one that was easy to read in a restaurant at the time, without 8 too long notebooks. but it's just become rubbish these days. it wouldn't bother me that much if it was just pure silly entertainment, but for many it remains the only source of information, or even duplicated by another quebecorian media.
too many opinion columnists now (and not just at jdem), true traditional journalism is having a hard time. i like to read opinion pieces and editorials, but let's give some space to journalistic neutrality so that we can just report the facts.
you will come back like tomorrow😇
well yes in! (it's correct i believed it at the time too)
cr is my anotherditionnelle
it is on average 2.5 pages per letter. do you imagine the photos that must be inside you?
get up at 4:30 in the morning and surf on your debts.
you just made my day with this sub!
wow thank you for this sub, it's so good!
fuck! i hate the natpost sooooo fucking much!
look up brian timpone. that is how bad propoganda can get. i really hope it doesn't come here, but i strongly suspect it is.  peladeau, rupert murdoch, conrad black and brian timpone. [here](
oh yeah, i'm aware of that. it's baffling to me.
you thought that was it, but it wasn't that it was
what ?!
english too can be hard to learn. it can be taught through tough thorough thought though...
* what if * is english running out of words?
what this
or as a good queb:
kess that?
at the same time the word-for-word translation never works, there are too many differences between two languages and when you translate word for word it gives something completely unreadable as shown.
in english you can for example use “what's this thing”. it is not a perfect translation, but none really is it always depends on the interpretation of the translator.
i might be stuck with my comment, but i don't quite understand the purpose of this image.
i see this case happening every two months on facebook. i do not understand exactly what this is supposed to represent?
that we use too many words to say a little? we could cut out the sentence from "what is this thing?" ...
isn't it <<qu'est-ce que cette chose-la ? > >
what is this thing ?
shortcut to "cossé what is that?"
what the hell?
\*ahem\* 
... dekessé?
long form of "what is it?"
who is it ?
kossésa
kessesa criss
do not even palron that "cookies are baked" and "bacon is cooked" ...
roughly speaking, [the english language is a meme] (
what's that?
cheese
the most complicated with english is the variation in the pronunciation of syllables that have the same letters.
lexicon valley podcast!
two words: kossé that.
it's something that doesn't know it's just any sort of thing, unfortunately.
m'a go and get my lette!
the 2nd that shouldn't be where you have something from quebec where you just put extra words
maybe it's an excerpt from a classical theatrical line requiring a specific number of syllables?
what is it that this thing is?
compare a latin language with a saxon language! i applaud with both feet! ...
joe claaaaaaarck
are you saying that french are not easy? or learning to french isn’t easy?
i will avoid the point but.
giving attention to the guys who wrote this is a bit like spitting on anyone who has ever written anything ...
this is the way
... it can be taught by hard and rigorous thought all the same.
lol
buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo
not as if there were around several thousand words of difference between the two languages
that's why they put * on, off, up, down, in, out * after all their verbs to modulate them.
turn out, turn on, turn off, turn in, turn down, turn up
result, turn on, turn off, put back, refuse, present.
worse, you who read my translation, you have surely thought of * other * verbs in addition in french, to interpret differently each of my examples!
in english you have "deep" and "shallow". what is the french word for "shallow"? ah yes, it's "not deep" or "shallow". who's running out of words now?
english is an evolution of french, simplified and mixed with germanic viking languages.
33% of the language is shared directly with french, and another 30% shared with latin. it means that more than half of the language is the same
this. "what's that?"
big brain
kessé that it is business there?
bonus point, it's multilingual: the spanish speaker next to you will understand "que es eso?" and he will answer you (yup, it happened)
as a translator, i agree with your comment, but what about "the purpose of this image"? it's just funny;)
as if we couldn't say "c'est quoi c'est chose" in french!
kess that?
"what is that"
indeed and even even shorter and still well written: what is this thing?
yes.
what is this thing?
it's normal they don't accept the same check the rules before posting in a sub ...
it's in the rules of their sub:
low content / low content:
    low content submissions and posts will likely be removed.
    twitter, youtube, social media, blog / fringe media submissions and posts will likely be removed.
    off-topic comments (derailing) will likely be removed.
    posts that do nothing but attack the source of a submission will be removed.
    **memes using standard images, or standard "canadian stereotype" posts will likely be removed.**
if only we had the same rule for this sub-reddit ...
there are well just on this sub-one that there are people who take a tragic event which has no connection with quebec and revisit it by victimizing themselves ...
they blocked it because it didn't suit their rule, but it's still a shitpost ...
we're going to call a spade a spade. the
law 21 could also be called the law against the career advancement of veiled women / men with turban. it is a law that was passed without any credible field study that wearing a religious bookmark in any way affects an individual's ability to serve in their society. we have never consulted people in the field (is there an independently verifiable and credible impact a veiled teacher or veiled nurse has on her students / patients). it is window dressing for the caq to feed its nationalist base and make them believe that there is a 'defense' or 'protection' of quebec culture. in fact all that does is prevent a veiled woman from advancing in her career if she fails to reveal herself (in rome like the romans aka maga in the usa / national front in france). i would have no problem if experts (sociologists, psychologists, anthropologists, etc.) had been consulted and credible scientific links came to support this change in our society. we must be naive to believe that forcing veiled women to reveal themselves does anything for quebec s identity or the place of qc within canada. law 21 = powder in the eyes / political identity candy for the caquist base, nothing more
[deleted]
another meme of late.
do you think a subreddit full of canadians would appreciate this meme
oh ok. so if a muslim\jewish\catholic\protestant\sikh person is a judge, teacher, police officer, prison guard or representative of your riding, and they are in a position where they are presiding over a muslim\jewish\catholic\protestant\sikh citizen, this law makes it so that the person in power can't use their religious symbols to coerce the citizen into doing their bidding? 
how does the hijab of an mp coerce someone to do something? 
the whole idea of coercion seems to have evaded you because yes the people it applies to are in positions of power, but their acts are already guided by a set of laws. how is their religious wear going to coerce someone do do anything.
if a catholic member wore a cross and promoted anti lgbt legislation, what does it matter if they took it off, i can find out they are catholic other ways, i could also just call them homophobes of x religion.
if a muslim police officer or correctional officer wears a hijab (and works a desk job), in what way is she coercing suspects detainees or inmates. 
if a sikh teacher is wearing a turban while teaching a history lesson, how is the lesson going to change? 
the answer is it does nothing but target visible minorities for no reason. 
i read the bill, understand it fully. 
we just have other more important stuff to deal with than having these ridiculous (trigger warning) racist laws. lotta words to say, if they do something bad, they can't blame it on religious discrimination because hey, i'm not coercing you with a bible or cross. 
hmm wonder who will get abused the most by this?
i would say that drawing a parallel between a premeditated islamophobic attack and a law in a canadian province that has increased islamophobic hatred is not completely irrelevant. the law mainly targets veiled muslims so it is not crazy to argue the parallel.
must understand that pleasure is prohibited on r / canada
ptdrrr but that's the truth
someone start archiving this sub. 
the reddit book will be hilarious as balls.
it's just r/quebec fucking with r/canada.
cuddle gang. asti i love you.
um they could totally wear a crucifix under their uniform. there are plenty of crosses all over the place for them to pray to if they really needed to. also, why does it matter what they are wearing. do they not still hold their christian values. will they not still act in the moral compass offered by their holy book, probably not. because everyone's religious devotion is different, it affects our choices and our dealings regardless of how we show our faith. let's judge these rcmp officers by their actions and not by the small little cross they wear under their uniform. not your best argument. as for uniforms, what are they for? why is their a dress code in parliament? sexism and racism. judges where funny outfits. have you seen the supreme court's? if a judge is muslim and wears a hijab to court rulings, what is she doing to coerce anyone. it seems like someone coerced her into removing her scarf for fear of losing her job. she by no way is telling anyone to wear one.
[deleted]
can i have a connection or something? chu too cowardly to look for it, thank you very much
the only place where i saw mentioned law 21 this week is on r / quebec, where we say that everyone is talking about it
why’s everyone speaking baguette?
deny and deflect.
this sub really likes to refuse racism in quebec.
r/quebec’s motto: ignorance is bliss.
we need to invade r / canada with nationalist, sovereignist and pro-quebec memes and articles. it would be sick.
[deleted]
no, you're wrong, it's because canadians are mean people who don't like quebec.
beaverton's articles are essentially text-based meme.
yeah my l.
no, the subs with too many rules are boring when you compare, winnies' memes flirt with me but they don't spoil the sub
i take my l.
[with reference to this text] ( religious-since-the-pandemic-advance-trudeau.php), in which it is written that justin trudeau had to respond to this: “do you agree with what experts and activists in these communities are saying, either that bill 21 fuels hatred and fuels discrimination? ", he was finally asked at the last of these attempts."
should we have apologized for the terrorist attack in london when journalists from canada make a lame link with bill 21?
you were saying?
it also prevents the sisters in cassocks from coming back to manage the schools. why make a distinction? worse still, why deny that in the muslim community, the veil is a patriarchal instrument sometimes used to dominate women and establish the control of religion on their choices? it's not always true, but it does happen. a judge who wears a liberal party badge would get scolded, why should religious proselytism, no matter where it comes from, have a pass? i understand that we are trying to make veiled women victims, but this law affects everyone equally. priest, rabbi, imam, pastafarian, i don't care. the state must be neutral, politically and religiously. and it must give the appearance of it, preserve the freedom of conscience of individuals.
i prefer the title, ** anti dogma law. ** it is the duty of religious groups to prove their cases to the state. to date, a hijab or any other religious dress is gang colors.
blood, crips, orthodox... /s
extra: * we're going to call a spade a spade. l law 21 could also be called the law against the career advancement of pastafarians. it is a law that was passed without any credible field study that wearing the religious strainer in any way affects an individual's ability to serve in their society. we never consulted people in the field. it is window dressing for the caq to feed its nationalist base and make them believe that there is a 'defense' or 'protection' of quebec culture. in fact all that does is prevent a pastafarian woman from advancing in her career if she fails to excuse herself (in rome like the romans aka maga in the usa / national front in france). i would have no problem if experts (sociologists, psychologists, anthropologists, etc.) had been consulted and credible scientific links came to support this change in our society. you have to be naive to believe that forcing women to go beyond themselves does anything for quebec s identity or the place of qc within canada. law 21 = powder in the eyes / political identity candy for the caquist base, nothing more *
my father said that "the english love flat stuffing" ...
why are dress codes widely accepted and defended but the line must be drawn at religion? the same arguments apply for dress codes, can you think of a reason why dress codes and uniforms were created particularly for public sector officials, or is that discrimination and we should do away with the concept of clothing rules altogether?
with the topic of residential schools, do you think it's a good idea for rcmp officers to be allowed to wear crucifixes while patrolling or do you think that might be perceived negatively by some communities that have suffered under christianity?
first, by what process has this law created islamophobia? is it the media coverage? frankly, we hear very little about bill 21 in quebec. very often, it is the anglo-canadian media which deal with this subject, using their own perception, in particular that of multiculturalism.
the law does not target muslims in particular, it targets all religious symbols, but there seems to be a noisy minority who are trying to discredit this law by shouting islamophobia by presenting themselves as the only victim. but wouldn't this law be fundamentally anti-catholic, anti-semitic, anti-sikh, etc.?
and besides, what's so wrong? we live in a secular state and having state officials in positions of authority wear religious signs, isn't that a contradiction to this canadian principle? religion is a spiritual matter that dictates our actions and our thoughts. these same people will have to make decisions and they will display religious symbols, to which beliefs are attached? this is what i call, at a minimum, the appearance of a major conflict of interest. let us not forget that living in society is a question of compromise.
because it is quebec that endures the cringe ideas of the rest of canada ...
t su´l sub from quebec…
this subreddit is clearly a mirror of society in quebec. this is of course the only province that's been trying to play the victim through this tragedy.
eh ... it can also close / r / quebec for brigading
username checks out
because they dare to apply a rule of their sub?
5.
low content / low content
memes using standard images, or standard "canadian stereotype" posts will likely be removed.
meta
[my face when] (
at least once a week (probably a lot more) there is a post here saying the moderators of r / canada declined my post 😢. and it's almost always a quebec meme who positions himself as a victim. tse maybe there is a bit of truth in there, but it's kidding in the end.
yeah and the worst part is that's pretty much just what i see from r / canada on my feed.
either way i got bored and started blocking users posting them.
i have about a hundred people so far. it's starting to show.
who's talking about apologizing?
apologize is the least of things. afterwards, assimilate yourself and speak the english. worse loves trudeau forever. always. always.
> do you think it's a good idea for rcmp officers to be allowed to wear crucifixes while patrolling or do you think that might be perceived negatively by some communities that have suffered under christianity?
has that ever been a problem even a single time in history?
has anyone, ever, anywhere, had a real-life problem that could have been solved by "not wearing a necklace"?
bill 21 affects all religions, but media spin experts have decided that it targets muslims, not catholics.
she visits the ensemble of regulations
fuck off. it is clearly related to the signs that appear like the veil and the turban. it's hard to be outraged by a schoolboy with an easily hidden cross.
he only had to have supper at their place if he wanted to eat with everyone.
you're not excel in the jokes toé
(excel is a model that hyundai offered when half of the world here was even pony)
had reserved it, but it did not come
it doesn't have to do with huynday, but i laughed out loud. seen this morning on twitter, patrick lagacé writes:
"posting this news on glt reveals plenty of twitter accounts that i hadn't had a chance to block."
someone's response: "glt?"
response response: "it's blt's brother, the sandwich, but it's a bit thicker and harder to digest. '
that's a shame!
i find him very beautiful, but i do not understand his accent!
but until he has his vaccines, he will not enter
/r/unexpectedperusse
what the hell is this guy doing?
it's not graceful, but sometimes you have to get by with kona jokes.
it is a joke from pérusse; sex and tips.
- […] i surprised her in the process of… reveling in the car's transmission arm.
-iiih. what is your tank?
-hyundai.   
-good ben, your tank, hyaun'date! we take another…!
how many shoes does the pope own? 5 pairs. are you up to it? holy father. ok i'm going back to bed ...
jla pogne pas
is he in debt ??
+1 for effort
ioniq-ole kidman also who seems to have had a go with his star status to avoid quarantine:
[
sorry, we're not taking any more reservations. the reason is kona no staff
ba doum tsst.
he can try, but he will not be without his health passport.
shouldn't his ex see him, it will make sparks!
this post, wow.
hyun-l'doau?
go to you.
bug
what i wish i could understand this joke
it's not ben ben * smart * or even * tata * on his part, he * ferrari * is certain of him when he is * turner * on board.
he is unmasked
i found this strange article while googling it.
why be afraid of an unvaccinated, who may have even caught the covid, if you are double vaxx ???
had to read it aloud, but excellent
oh .... oooooooooohhhhhhhhh !!!
ban! i claim a ban for op!
probably elantra'ra through the back door.
do not.
i don't watch tv very often, who makes car announcements?
santro like puns, i still find hyundai not worse.
just to remember, it's who seen that his career has simply 💣💥
according to my information he prefers cuban whores on standard dates.
boooooo-urns!
esti he continues like this he will pick up both feet in the covid ...
i think who re-creta for trying. (ok, i'm not sure it's a model sold in quebec ..)
wn any case, sonata uh ... barnak!
heeeey boy has to be read aloud with the quebec accent this one, but it's good lol
my second tank it was an exel slow idea not to take a chick to the restaurant with that vaccine or not we would not have surrendered
since he will surely lose everything in his contracts. he will have to walk to velo-asteur (veloster)
stay pali ssade not look at us
the vaccine does not stop vaccinated people from contracting or spreading the virus so segregation is absolutely pointless and stupid, that’s why.
anyone who is downvoting this clearly doesn’t understand the reality and is in massive denial.  stop marginalizing your friends, family and community over being misinformed because when all this comes to light good luck getting them to forgive you next time you see them at the grocery store.
if you don't stop laughing at him, he'll land at your house and sonata carries it, but if you don't open elentra for him.
he loves his family and he will put the accent on what is important to him, even if it means crossing the palisades to eat at a restaurant with them.
kona not that me.
i put the accent on humor.
(i would posivoterais 2x just for your edit!)
luckily, i worked at hyundai to understand these jokes, otherwise i would really look like an ignorant!
my first tank this
drainage for real
wasn't it rather a * tercel *?
"i tried r / canada but the mods."
this sentence made me laugh! indeed, on r / canada, sometimes you come to say to yourself "the mods" ....
new brunswick also speaks french, some regions more than others. it is a french very similar to that of quebecers but with some differences. french is also spoken in many regions of ontario, and there are francophone communities dotted here and there throughout the rest of canada.
[deleted]
your french is good! still a lot of work to do on grammar and syntax, but you have taken the most important step: make yourself understood, if we understand you is the most important. after that it's just perfecting!
thank you for the effort in french, it is very appreciated here
i am impressed by your french.
here is a corrected version (a little), just to help you ....
(i'm an american from new england, excuse my bad french.)
i recently learned that my father is from quebec and i am planning a trip to quebec. i know that in quebec we speak french, but in new brunswick we also speak french, right?
i study french and i want to practice, i am 15% quebecois and i speak german because i am a little german. i tried r / canada but the mods ...
i know i'm not a true quebecer, but i admire the culture and how the language has been kept alive.
is quebec the only place where we speak french? thank you very much, i'm sorry my bad french.
please speak to me in french, english speakers are lazy and i want to learn french.
> i know that i am not a real quebecker
you already write better than the majority of native quebecers hahaha
french is an official language in [new brunswick] ( about 32% of the population has french as their mother tongue.
across canada, there are francophone communities, but the highest concentration is in quebec and in the maritimes / descendants of the acadians.
edit: if you want to improve your french, try to go outside the big cities or specify that you want to speak french, some people are quick to switch to english.
my best advice for practicing would be to listen to french-language movies or series. it will greatly improve your understanding of the language if you want to practice while you are still in the united states.
we'll never, ever make fun of someone who's trying to speak our language. good job man!
health
thank you for your interest in quebec and french, welcome among us. the% is not important 😀 yes new brunswick speaks french for the most part, for example in shediak. they have a slightly different dialect on the other hand .. it is even difficult for us to understand at times if they do not make an effort .. remarks that we also have the 'joual' .. slang québecois .. which is just as difficult to understand. follow for them if we don't make an effort too, ahaha
> i tried r / canada but the mods.
what happened?
your french is better than that of our former prime minister.
welcome!
> i know that i am not a true quebecker.
“moé (** me **), the world, i want (** i don't want **) to know where they come from, i want (** i want **) to know where they are going. the world, they can be white, yellow, black, mauve, blue with yellow-orange pitons (** buttons **): i don't care (** i don't care **). if they want to fight with me (** me **), it's my brothers! "
\ - pierre falardeau
i have translated some local expressions so that you can read the "slang" better.
as advice, i would dare say to find you a television program to ** listen again another time ** in french without english subtitles, or at most, french subtitles. this is often the most effective way to learn a language, because you already have a good basis for your show and you already have an interest.
that said, depending on your level, you will have to adapt the choice of television program a little. for people who have children, i often recommend listening to bob the square sponge, because the dialogues are really easy to understand since most of the time it is possible to see what you are hearing.
well done for your openness. you are much more bilingual than the vast majority of english people in canada. quebec is the most bilingual place on the continent and even trilingual because immigrants learn two languages.
i'll just comment on your french: you try and we understand you, for me it's gold. hate to have you in canada.
i'm only going to comment on your french: you are trying and we can understand you, for me this is gold. excited to have you in canada.
❤️
see the history of louisiana, acadia, french canada ... you will be surprised by many facts ...
> i know that i am not a true quebecker. but i admire the culture and how the language has been kept alive
there is no such thing as a "real quebecois"! our table is large enough to accommodate anyone who wants to contribute to our collective well-being.
we make a big pot luck, i'll show you how to make chinese pie and hell, you show me to play a song from your place that we're going to sing when we're going to be a little hot. yesterday we were strangers, tomorrow we are brothers!
hi! french is spoken everywhere in canada (i am a francophone from ontario who now lives in quebec). i am really touched by your openness and your curiosity! but it is true that we speak mainly french in quebec (approximately 95% of francophones in canada are in quebec).
otherwise several countries speak french also like
france
the senegal
some places in vietnam
belgium
switzerland
in burundi
in cameroon
on the ivory coast
in congo
in haiti
in luxembourg
madagascar
at monaco
and in equatorial guinea
french is the 5th most spoken language in the world so speaking french is very useful
your french is a bit deficient. that said: bravo. you make 100 times more effort than many english speakers who were born here and who know french well.
continue like this, it is by making mistakes and persevering that you will learn french. and hats off because basically, for you, it's not necessary since you live in an english-speaking country, but you take the trouble to do the same. i have great admiration for that!
bravo for making the effort to write in french !! new brunswick is an officially bilingual province. some regions are more french-speaking than others, however.
it's really cool that you make the effort for french. it is a difficult language to learn, but so beautiful (when well written and spoken)!
there are several francophone communities scattered across canada, they are of course on the verge of extinction however.
however, i doubt anyone reasonable will resent you if you speak (even very badly) broken french. the effort is always appreciated and they will gladly teach you our dialects!
r/francophonie :) r/frenchhelp, r/learnfrench, r/french, r/suisse, r/france, r/wallonia, r/congo, r/cameroun,  r/burkina, r/morocco, r/polynesia / r/tahiti, r/guyane,  r/haiti,  r/madagascar,  r/lebanon...
health,
you write well enough to make yourself understood. that is writing in french.
of course, with time and practice, you will certainly become much more comfortable. but you don't have to apologize for your french. snobs and elitists who would blame you for it don't deserve your attention anyway.
good luck and keep it up!
if you need help with your quebec genealogy, we have a lot of specialized resources in quebec.
> i tried r / canada but the mods
story of our fucking lives ahahaha
new brunswick is bilingual. about 1/3 of the population is francophones with english second language with the largest population to the north and eastern coast.
the further south down the coast you go, the more it becomes a mix of languages to the point where people speak a unique dialect known as “chiac”. that’s my home region, and while it used to be ridiculed in the past, it’s become a prominent acadian cultural phenomenon that people have accepted and become proud of, with several musical artists singing in chiac, as well as cartoons being produced in the chiac language.
chiac is mostly found between richibucto to moncton, and it’s basically people who are so fluent and used to talking in both languages, bouncing between anglophones and francophones in mixed communities that they begin to speak both at the same time, not really conscious of what we’re doing.
it took me a while to break this habit when i moved to québec, because i live in a region with very few bilinguals and if i used a mixed word i got strange looks.
funny enough my kids while speaking mostly french will sometimes speak chiac words or phrases. i think this has to do with teaching them both languages from a very young age, and it’s been very fascinating for me to watch it evolve and see which words they prefer in each language.
—-
tldr: basically if you go to nb you can speak either language and get by fine :)
in ontario, there are francophone communities in the east and south-east. including ottawa and the surrounding communities. but unfortunately, for example, in casselman, on, 60% of the inhabitants no longer speak french.
ontario has areas with francophones, eg sudbury, i think windsor as well. 
i was at someone's house in sudbury, the husband spoke only english, the wife was bilingual and spoke french to her kids. they switch languages and no one blinks an eye.
r/canada yeah they suck.
even if you are only 15% quebecois you are anyway quebecois i will tell you one you are welcome to your home
quebec is the only province where french is spoken predominantly. there are small communities across canada where french is spoken, but never as much as here. if i may allow myself a few comments, they would be as follows:
- do not ask forgiveness when you learn french. it's part of the learning curve and any sane person understands it. by dint of apologizing, you risk demotivating yourself and the learning experience becomes negative. french is so difficult that the majority of francophones make mistakes themselves. so stop apologizing and be proud to speak one of the most difficult languages on this planet!
- being from quebec means: being born here, or having parents born here, or adopting quebec values. being from quebec is not a privilege, it is a choice. to love quebec is to admit that a part of you is quebecois without denying the rest of your identity.
- quebecers, we are warm people but also temperamental. our greatest flaw is also our greatest quality: our language. our past has filled us with resentment in the defense of our language. sometimes there will be people who will be harder on anglophones, mainly english canadians. it's a shame but it's true. you will always find a friend by speaking french, but know that some will judge you despite all the efforts you make. here as elsewhere, we have good people and less good people. people more patient than others and people nicer than others.
speaking french is the best way to make friends across the province! quebecers will often try to speak to you in english because they will also want to practice or simply help you. you just have to insist on speaking in french and you will see a lot of respect in their eyes. it is an honor for us when a non-french speaking person speaks to us in french and you will always have someone by your side when you speak the language of molière.
if you're passing through the montreal area, let me know and we'll have a good beer together!
ps: there are a lot of different accents in quebec and a lot of expressions. there is no detour to learn them but do not worry, even the french in france do not understand the first time! ;)
quebec c the spot out speaks the clearest french. there are spots in ontario too, a bit in manitoba ft in saskatchewan ft more in alberta because of the oil boom. the further east you go, the less "good french" there is. the world speaks more of the joual in the east of qc or the shiac (i think it is spelled the same entk) in the maritimes.
new brunswick speaks francais-acadiens / chiac, which resembles francais-quebecois / joual / magoua enough for everyone to understand each other. these are dialects of french, just like english uk vs us…
you will love quebec!
we love you!
my friend we are a land of welcome you are from quebec like us if you share our culture welcome
i am a french teacher, and you write at the intermediate level, my friend! no apology, be proud, and continue your studies!
hi! i love that you want to learn. me someone who wants to learn my language is a friend. welcome
good for you for asking. your post attracted me because i haven't spoken french for 22 years. is my french rusting? does "rust" mean rusty? i am sorry my pronunciation of words in french has deteriorated since i was a child. now i pronounce words like an anglephone. it's like nails on a chalkboard to me when i speak. i should connect with francophones in toronto to practice my french.
> i tried r / canada but the mods.
me too friend!
> i know that i am not a real quebecker
if you love quebec, for me you're quebecer, no matter where you come from.
> is quebec the only place where french is spoken?
in canada? no, but yes.
my friend! 😀❤
thank you very much for the effort! it's appreciated!
if you don't mind i'll reply in english. ontario has some french communities, especially near the québec border. and yes, in new brunswick, there are acadians who speak french, but it's quite different from any "normal" french as in it contains a lot of english expressions.
if you want to immerse yourself in a french community, i strongly recommend coming to québec and to avoid montréal because it is very bilingual an english-dominant unfortunately, especially in the downtown core.
we are almost everywhere but generally in quebec, ontario's and new brunswick. have a good trip
[deleted]
i was born in acadia and french in my hometown is different. it is a mixture of english and french underlined by a pronounced accent. you will find that francophones in new brunswick speak english very well, so no stress. i have the impression that in quebec you can find more people who don't speak a word of english.
thank you for your initiative to learn french!
i am a native quebecer and french is my mother tongue.
i went to new brunswick for my job a few years ago. during a meeting with clients from nb, my colleague had the good idea to say: '' hey guys, i know we all speak french so why don't we switch !? ''. so, we started to speak "french".
i no longer understood a word.
in new brunswick, you see, people don't really speak french. he speaks a dialect called "chiac"!
[  
here is a good band that sings in chiac:
even if you french is not perfect, you make the effort to improve what is already good! as a french woman who intends to settle in quebec after having lived in ontario, i recommend that you come to quebec because it is where you will find the largest french-speaking communities.
\ * i am on an english keyboard so i cannot put accents.